<title:> U.S. TV startup Roku to confidentially file for IPO: WSJ
<Date:>(Reuters) - U.S. TV startup Roku Inc is working on plans to confidentially file for an initial public offering, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.
<Content:>
Roku Inc., maker of streaming media players, TVs, and software, is working on plans to file confidentially for an initial public offering, according to people familiar with the matter.
The company has been working with investment banks including Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup Inc. on preparing for a potential offering that could raise as much as $150 million, the people said. The timing of any deal isn・t yet set, and it also isn・t yet clear what valuation Roku might seek, they added.
Roku, founded in 2002, became known to consumers through small boxes that hook up to TVs and stream video from services including Netflix Inc. and Hulu. Its business grew as some people ：cut the cord； and canceled their cable-TV service. Roku said in September that it had sold 10 million streaming video players in the U.S.
The market for streaming media players is still growing rapidly, expected to rise from 24 million units in the U.S. this year to 44 million by 2017, according to research firm IHS Inc. While Apple Inc.・s Apple TV and Roku dominate that market, with a combined 94% share, new devices from Google Inc. and others could make it more competitive, IHS said.
More recently, Roku has expanded into other businesses, including Roku televisions produced with other manufacturers. It also partners with cable companies to provide software, and now aims to sells advertising space on its platform, according to recent company statements.
The Saratoga, Calif.-based company has so far raised more than $150 million in private capital from investors including some of the companies it partners with, such as Netflix and British Sky Broadcasting, Roku has said. It has also raised money from Hearst Corp., Fidelity Investments, Menlo Ventures and News Corp, owner of The Wall Street Journal.
In early October, CEO and founder Anthony Wood told publication the Information that Roku generated $190 million in revenue in 2013, and was ：getting closer； to profitability.
Companies are generally eligible to file confidentially for IPOs in the U.S. if they have less than $1 billion in annual revenue.
Mr. Wood is a former Netflix executive and founder of several media companies.
Though IPOs in the past few weeks have struggled amid a broader market correction, the market has been welcoming to new offerings from consumer technology firms recently. Camera maker GoPro Inc. is trading up around 200% since its June IPO, and Mobileye NV, which makes camera safety systems for cars, is up around 100% from its August debut.
Jack Marshall contributed to this article
