<title:>By Thomas Gryta   
<Date:>25 October 2014
<Content:>
A surprising fact emerged from AT&T Inc.'s financial results this week: up to 10 million of the company's most lucrative wireless customers may be free to walk out the door.
The situation is a result of AT&T's transition from plans that offer subsidized phones under two-year contracts to plans where customers buy their own phones on 20- to 24-month installment plans without other obligations to stick with AT&T.
The contracts and installment plans both have the effect of binding customers to the carrier. But while AT&T is experiencing its lowest-ever rate of cancellations, the company indicated this week that millions of subscribers may have fallen through the cracks.
On Wednesday, AT&T surprised analysts when it said 20 million of its 75 million postpaid subscribers were getting discounted pricing and were eligible to upgrade to new phones on installment plans but hadn't signed up by Sept. 30. On Thursday, an AT&T spokesman said most of those 20 million subscribers were still on traditional contracts -- but not all, leaving potentially millions who are paying for service but have no obligation to stay with the carrier.
AT&T is confident those customers will stay put, however. Many are on plans with family members who may be under contract, and all are enjoying lower bills after AT&T cut their rates earlier this year, with a typical subscriber saving around $15 a month.
Still, their freedom to leave is a sign of the new competitive risks to wireless carriers as the industry moves rapidly away from the contract model.
"The real question is what will happen in Q4 when a large number of customers buy iPhones," said Craig Moffett, an analyst at researcher MoffettNathanson LLC. A large portion of AT&T smartphone customers use the iPhone, which was once exclusively sold by the carrier, and the recent update to the phone is expected to drive upgrades.
"At least some will look for better deals elsewhere. Churn will rise," Mr. Moffett said.
Carriers have moved away from contracts in part because customers don't like them and because the shift rids them of the burden of subsidizing expensive devices like Apple Inc.'s iPhone.
The rub for providers is that customers who pay for their own devices have an incentive to hang on to them as long as possible to hold down their expenses. This can leave them untethered to the carrier and vulnerable to competitors stealing them away.
An AT&T subscriber using two gigabytes of data a month on the carrier's no-contract Next plan and a fully paid-off phone would spend $65 a month for wireless service. Buying a new base model iPhone 6 would add at least $27 a month to the tally.
In February, AT&T quietly started cutting prices for customers on plans that require contracts. It has also made those people eligible to switch to a Next plan and upgrade to a new phone under its installment scheme after just six months under their existing contracts. Some people are still switching.
Millions of those eligible customers haven't taken the bait, and their numbers are swelling. On its earnings conference call Wednesday, AT&T said the number of subscribers who could upgrade but hadn't yet -- subscribers it calls "pre-Next" -- had grown from 17 million at the end of June.
Many of those customers are free to jump ship whenever they want. Some are in contracts that every month come closer to ending, while the rest have no financial obligation at all to stay with AT&T.
For carriers, having a large part of the customer base floating without obligations may be the new reality.
T-Mobile US Inc., which pioneered the no-contract model, has about 80% of its postpaid customers on such plans, and as many as a quarter of them aren't financing a device, meaning they aren't tethered to its service. Verizon Communications Inc. and Sprint Corp. don't disclose the portion of their customers not on contracts.
Installment plans have a similar effect to contracts as subscribers need to pay off the full cost of phones -- which can run to $650 or more -- if they leave the carrier.
Wall Street analysts raised concerns this week that the new disclosures signal AT&T may have to work harder to hold on to customers who may be staying around only because of discounts and are at risk of leaving when they do decide to upgrade their phones.
"The vast majority are on family plans," Chief Financial Officer John Stephens said in an interview. "They are locked in."
Mr. Stephens cited low monthly service cancellations, or churn, as proof that customers won't leave. AT&T's churn so far this year is on pace to be the company's lowest ever, including just 0.86% in the second quarter and 0.99% in the third quarter.
"The facts support that we are doing OK with keeping customers happy," Mr. Stephens said.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
