<title:>By Hannah Karp   
<Date:>25 October 2014
<Content:>
The growing availability of cheap music -- from free videos and streams to $10-a-month unlimited subscription plans -- is sapping demand for digital downloads at the world's biggest seller of music, Apple Inc.
Music sales at Apple's iTunes Store have fallen 13% to 14% world-wide since the start of the year, according to people familiar with the matter. The decline is stark compared with a much shallower dip last year. Global revenue from downloads fell 2.1% in 2013, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.
The plummeting download numbers help illustrate why Apple bought the $10-a-month subscription streaming service Beats Music earlier this year, as part of its $3 billion acquisition that included headphone maker Beats Electronics. Apple is rebuilding Beats Music and plans to relaunch it next year as part of iTunes, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Some record company executives worry their industry could lurch back into decline after several years of relative stability, should download sales decline faster than streaming growth accelerates. A key part of that equation, executives say, is persuading enough users of online music services to pay a monthly subscription fee, usually $10 a month, rather than stick with free versions that carry advertising and generate much less revenue for record labels. Spotify AB offers such a free, ad-supported option; Beats Music doesn't.
Factoring in CD sales, which have been plunging for well over a decade, overall music sales in most of the world held steady last year. Japan was an exception, with steep drops in physical and digital sales alike. World-wide revenue from recorded music totaled $15 billion in 2013. In the U.S., recorded music sales are nearly 50% below their peak in 2000, though they've been essentially flat for the past few years.
This year's decline in global iTunes music sales mirrors domestic declines. U.S. revenue from downloads of singles and albums fell 11% and 14%, respectively, in the first half of 2014, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. But a 28% jump in revenue from streaming music services helped overall digital revenue increase slightly to $2.2 billion in the first six months of the year.
Nielsen Entertainment analyst Dave Bakula chalked up the declines in downloads mostly to "a shift in the way consumers are consuming music," noting that total streams on services such as Spotify and Pandora Media Inc. were up 46% for the year to date, compared with last year. Streaming services now account for nearly one-third of the revenue from recorded music in the U.S., according to the RIAA.
On Thursday, Pandora, which offers both a paid streaming service and free, ad-supported music, said it ended the third quarter with 76.5 million active listeners, up 5.2% from a year earlier. Pandora's shares, however, tumbled Friday as it warned of "an increasingly competitive environment" and slowing user growth.
This week, Spotify dropped prices for its streaming service, allowing family members to share one account at discounted rates. The company, whose premium service typically costs $10 a month, has about 40 million subscribers, of whom around a quarter are paying users.
The relative trajectories of downloads and streaming vary widely from market to market. In Japan, the second biggest music market, there is little streaming business to speak of. In a handful of smaller markets including Sweden, streaming is almost all there is; paid downloads are virtually unheard of.
Despite the slowing U.S. music sales, Apple reported this week that global iTunes sales -- including movies, apps and books -- increased to $4.6 billion in the third quarter, up from $4.3 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Apple didn't break out figures for music sales.
Another factor potentially weighing down digital sales could be this year's album release schedule, which features bigger end-of-the-year releases than last year's, said Nielsen's Mr. Bakula. Taylor Swift's forthcoming pop album, "1989," is slated for release next week and is expected to be one of the year's biggest sellers. British boy band One Direction and hip-hop star Eminem have albums due out next month.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
