<title:>By Joe Queenan   
<Date:>25 October 2014
<Content:>
I'm always getting calls -- some live, some recorded -- from companies or mutual funds asking for my vote on board proposals. The people who call, live or recorded, are always very nice and genuinely interested in my opinions. The message they transmit is: We are not some cold, impersonal behemoth sitting in cyberspace. We are flesh and blood. And we care.
Why, then, did Bill Gross jump ship at Pimco without letting me know? I've got about one-tenth of my 401(k) socked away in that Total Return Fund of his, but last month the guy just bailed on me. No heads-up, no bittersweet adieu; he just up and left. Nor did Pimco itself see fit to send me an explanatory note, or even a little conciliatory message assuring me that things were going to be all right. Even though other shareholders were cashing out left and right.
"We were going to fire the bum anyway," the note might have read. "The dude was getting way too flaky."
When a company wants to change one of its bylaws or policies, it often calls me up or sends me a nicely worded letter, asking if I support the board's resolution. But when the guy who got Pimco off the ground in the first place, with help from little guys like me -- when this big shot abruptly decided to take a hike -- I got nothing but silence.
Not to get all touchy-feely about this, but I think of Pimco as a friend. I really do. I like those guys out in Newport Beach, Calif. They've been good to me. They're my bros. But now I feel like they've just totally dissed me. And Pimco isn't the only company that has recently given me the high hat.
Last month, when Apple decided to force-feed iTunes users the new U2 album, nobody bothered to tell me. As a shareholder in this legendarily arrogant corporation, I was left red-faced and sputtering, having to defend the company's insolent behavior to friends who hate the company and really hate U2 and know that I own Apple. For the record, I hate U2 too. Something about Bono's shades. And that weird hair color of his. His 'do looks worse than Springsteen's.
It's the little things that count in life, and I don't think some companies understand this. When I've got a nice chunk of change invested in Microsoft, I would like a little bit of advance notice that they are going to ditch the friendly Windows interface and replace it with something ghastly. Or that they are going to spend a couple billion dollars on a videogame company I never heard of.
If Disney is going to bankroll some stupid Hercules film starring the Rock just a few months after somebody else released a stupid Hercules film, I think the least they could do is drop me and all the other faithful shareholders a line in advance. If Merck or Pfizer is going to sideline a controversial drug, could someone give me a heads-up? For old time's sake?
And if one of the energy companies I own stock in is planning to frack its way right across the Keystone State, could somebody give me a holler, so I can remember not to tell any of my relatives in Harrisburg that I own stock in the company? Finally, could Nokia or Motorola occasionally send me a little note saying: "Disregard what you may have heard, Joe. We still exist."
I really, really like the companies I invest in. They've been like friends to me. But investing is a two-way street, and I expect a little love in return. If I had poured a hundred grand into one of my friends' businesses, he wouldn't change jobs without letting me know he was leaving. And if one of my friends threatened to download U2's new album onto my computer or my iPod, he wouldn't do it without asking first. That way, I could say, "Could you download the new Tony Bennett/Lady Gaga album instead? I hate Bono's hair."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
