<title:>By Sven Grundberg   
<Date:>24 October 2014
<Content:>
STOCKHOLM -- Nokia Corp.'s quarterly earnings signaled that the company's main network unit has moved well beyond several years of painful restructuring.
The former handset giant gave a more bullish full-year outlook Thursday after swinging to a profit in the third quarter. Its earnings were boosted by a 13% rise in revenue, as the Finnish telecom-equipment supplier deployed high-speed mobile networks in North America and China.
Nokia's net profit in the quarter was 747 million euros ($945 million), compared with a 91 million euros loss a year earlier, helped also by a large tax gain. Revenue increased to 3.32 billion euros.
"Progress was widespread, with four of our six regions increasing sales," Chief Executive Rajeev Suri said.
Mr. Suri has led Nokia's mobile-network unit since 2009 and was appointed as Nokia's CEO in late April this year, as the company transferred its unprofitable phone business to Microsoft Corp. Without the handset business, Nokia is now a mobile-network firm competing with Huawei Technologies Co. and Ericsson. Nokia also has a Berlin-based digital-mapping operation and a large number of patents.
Nokia's mobile-network arm, which until recently was plagued with overcapacity and losses after a difficult merger with Siemens AG's mobile-network unit, has staged a comeback and is benefiting from deals with China Mobile Ltd. and Sprint Corp., which are ramping up their high-speed mobile Internet services.
Nokia said it expects a full-year operating-profit margin of slightly above 11%, having previously forecast a margin in the high single digits. It confirmed that it expects net sales for its main networks unit to grow on a year-to-year basis in the second half of 2014.
Nokia's stock rose sharply Thursday on the Helsinki stock exchange after the earnings release, finishing the day 3.5% higher at 6.74 euros.
The Finnish company booked a 2 billion euros tax benefit in the quarter, which was partly offset by a 1.2 billion euros goodwill impairment charge related to its HERE digital-mapping unit.
Unlike Google Inc. and Apple Inc.'s mapping services, Nokia's platform largely targets corporate customers, like auto makers and logistics-dependent businesses such as FedEx Corp., that pay licensing fees. Still, Nokia is about to release free-of-charge map apps for consumers using mobile devices running Google Inc.'s Android and Apple Inc.'s iOS platform.
Mr. Suri said he isn't in favor of running advertisements on Nokia's mapping service, as Google does, and that the business will remain geared toward enterprise customers and the automotive industry. He added that while its mapping operation might appear an odd fit next to Nokia's network business, the company is a suitable owner of the unit.
"Nokia is a good owner of HERE, we have a balance sheet that can help the operation," he said, adding that combining advanced high-speed network technology with a mapping asset can assist developers of autonomous cars, for instance.
In a separate announcement on Thursday, Nokia said it would appoint Sean Fernback as the new president of its HERE unit. Mr. Fernback, a former TomTom NV executive, joined HERE earlier this year and will succeed Michael Halbherr, who stepped down and left the unit in August.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
