<title:>By Gillian Wong   
<Date:>24 October 2014
<Content:>
Corrections & Amplifications
Apple Inc. Chief Executive Tim Cook told a Chinese media outlet that the company's four Beijing retail stores serve about 250,000 customers a week. A Business & Finance article in the Friday-Sunday edition about Apple's plans in China incorrectly stated that Mr. Cook said it serves 750,000 customers a day in 15 Apple-branded stores across China.
(WSJA Oct. 27, 2014)
(END)
BEIJING -- Apple Inc. plans to increase the number of its Apple-brand retail stores in Greater China to 40 from 15 within two years, Chief Executive Tim Cook said Thursday.
In an interview with Chinese news portal Sina.com, Mr. Cook said the Cupertino, Calif., company will also increase investment in China by an unspecified amount. "In the future, China will become Apple's biggest revenue contributor," he said, according to Sina.com. "It's just a matter of time."
An Apple spokeswoman confirmed the remarks. Greater China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan.
China is Apple's third-largest market after the U.S. and Europe and is an important growth driver for the company. Its revenue growth in Greater China, however, slowed sharply in the latest quarter ahead of the release of its new iPhone, which was delayed by regulators in China until this month.
Mr. Cook's trip is being portrayed by some Chinese media outlets as part of the company's attempt to assuage concerns the Chinese government or public might have about the security of data stored on its phones. In July, state broadcaster China Central Television called a location-tracking function on the iPhone a "national security concern." Apple has said it doesn't keep user data.
The official Xinhua News Agency said Mr. Cook and China's Vice Premier Ma Kai "exchanged views on protection of users' information" when they met on Wednesday.
Apple faces competition in China from South Korean company Samsung Electronics Co. as well as Chinese manufacturers. Apple ranked No. 6 in China's smartphone market in the second quarter, according to research firm IDC.
Mr. Cook said Apple has 7,000 employees in China serving 750,000 customers daily in 15 Apple-branded stores. "You could say they're the world's busiest retail stores," he said.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
