 
 PRESS DIGEST - Hong Kong - Nov 6
Reuters, 21:07, 5 November 2014, 463 words, (English)
HONG KONG Nov 6 (Reuters) - These are some of the leading stories in Hong Kong newspapers on Thursday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
Document WCLBA00020141106eab6000ry



For Xiaomi, a Tidy Profit On Cheap Smartphones

By Prudence Ho, Lorraine Luk and Juro Osawa   
963 words
6 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

HONG KONG -- Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc., which was founded jut four years ago, already is among the world's largest smartphone makers.

Now a confidential document viewed by The Wall Street Journal shows that Xiaomi's net profit nearly doubled last year, making it an unusually lucrative business in an industry where most players selling cheap handsets struggle to break even.

Xiaomi, which a few months ago surpassed Samsung Electronics Co. as the biggest smartphone vendor in China by shipments, presented the document to banks in its recent pitch to raise $1 billion in loans for overseas expansion or acquisition.

A table in the document showed that Xiaomi's net profit last year rose 84% to 3.46 billion yuan ($566 million) from 1.88 billion yuan in 2012. Its revenue more than doubled to 27 billion yuan. Another table included a forecast of a 75% net profit increase this year.

A Xiaomi spokeswoman declined to comment.

Xiaomi's rapid growth and strong earnings are also part of broader changes in the smartphone market where Chinese players are greatly increasing their presence, challenging the dominance of Samsung and Apple Inc. Over the past year, some of China's top smartphone vendors such as Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co., have been expanding overseas, posing a threat to Samsung in Asia, Latin America and other emerging markets.

Xiaomi's profit flies in the face of many analysts' belief that the Chinese company's rock-bottom pricing for its phones to increase market share has come at the expense of profit.

Its cheapest phone, the Redmi 1S starts at 699 yuan ($114) and its latest flagship model, the Mi4, starts at 1,999 yuan ($327).

A possible explanation for Xiaomi's ability to squeeze out so much profit while selling affordable phones is its inexpensive but efficient marketing tactics.

While established competitors spend fortunes on TV commercials and other traditional forms of advertising, Xiaomi's marketing has centered on social media and Internet forums where many users post comments, complaints and requests. In China, Xiaomi has expanded rapidly over the past few years by selling its phones online, relying on word-of-mouth among China's more than 600 million Internet users.

By interacting with users online and often tweaking its software and features based on their input, Xiaomi has built a loyal fan base in China. This strategy hasn't only proven effective in retaining users, but has also helped the company save a lot on marketing cost, analysts say.

According to the document, Xiaomi spent 876 million yuan, or 3.2% of its revenue, on sales and marketing expenses last year. Its spending in 2012 was 416 million yuan, or 3.9% of its revenue.

After seeing the success of Xiaomi's marketing strategy, many other Chinese handset makers have started focusing more on online marketing, using social media as a way to engage with consumers.

The document also provided some details on how Xiaomi earns its revenue. Even though the company sells smartphone applications, other software and services, 94% of its revenue came from handset sales last year, according to the document. Sales of services such as mobile games accounted for only 1% of its revenue.

"Xiaomi has done a great job of growing smartphone shipments and profits simultaneously," said Strategy Analytics analyst Neil Mawston. Still, analysts say it is unclear whether Xiaomi can sustain its profit margin, as China's smartphone market is becoming crowded and saturated.

As competition intensifies at home, Xiaomi has expanded overseas in Asian emerging markets such as India.

Despite its stellar growth, Xiaomi will likely face many hurdles in its international expansion. In mature markets such as the U.S., where it is critical for smartphone makers to secure access to intellectual property to defend themselves from patent lawsuits, Xiaomi will likely have difficulties expanding unless it finds ways to boost its patent portfolio, analysts say.

To finance its expansion outside China, Xiaomi is currently seeking another round of equity fundraising, according to people familiar with the situation. The next round will likely give Xiaomi a much higher valuation than the previous rounds. In August 2013, Xiaomi said it raised a fourth round of funding that valued the firm at $10 billion, more than double its June 2012 valuation of $4 billion.

Xiaomi -- pronounced "sheow-me" -- was founded in 2010 by Lei Jun, an entrepreneur who has been compared by Chinese media to Steve Jobs. Just a year into its existence, the company was already successful in creating a buzz around its products, starting with its social networking app called MiTalk, which attracted seven million users in two months. When Xiaomi launched its first smartphone, the Mi1, in late 2011, the first batch of shipments -- 100,000 units -- sold out in less than three hours.

In addition to selling its smartphones, Xiaomi charges for some of its services. It runs its own mobile-app store, called the Mi Market, and offers a whole host of smartphone services such as games, social networking and cloud storage. It also offers entertainment such as movies. Through its online store, the company also sells accessories such as phone cases and dolls of its rabbit mascot.

Xiaomi's share of the global smartphone market rose to 5.3% in the third quarter, making it the third-largest smartphone maker after Samsung and Apple, according to a market-research firm IDC. In the coming quarters, Lenovo, whose market share in the quarter was almost the same as Xiaomi's, is expected to become the third-largest player, as it recently completed its acquisition of Motorola Mobility.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141105eab60000s




Corporate News: Corporate Watch

457 words
5 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
25
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

WAL-MART STORES

Price to Retake Asia Helm

As President and CEO

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is bringing back Scott Price to oversee its Asia division less than six months after the company relocated the executive from Hong Kong to take an international strategy position at the company's Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Mr. Price will add his old job of president and chief executive for Asia to his new, Arkansas-based role leading real estate, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate strategy for Wal-Mart's international operations, which include approximately 6,100 stores in 26 countries outside of the U.S.

He returns to the Asia job as Wal-Mart's operations in China, Japan and India are grappling with choppy sales results, compliance issues and government regulation.

The post was left vacant after Mr. Price's successor and former China head, Greg Foran, left the region to take over Wal-Mart's U.S. operations in August.

-- Shelly Banjo

XIAOMI

Smartphone Maker to Invest

$1 Billion for TV Content

Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. will invest $1 billion to acquire television content, the company said Tuesday, as it joins Chinese software giants in a race to control video programming in the country.

The company also said it hired Chen Tong, former chief editor of Web portal Sina, as vice president in charge of content investments.

"Xiaomi TV's content must become even more rich and colorful, and become the weather vane leading the industry," the company wrote on its television division's official Weibo microblog.

The move comes shortly after Jack Ma, founder of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., met with Hollywood executives to discuss possibilities of co-financing coming movies. Chinese Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been scrambling for exclusive content as they vie for the eyeballs of China's more than 600 million Internet users.

-- Eva Dou

MICHAEL KORS HOLDINGS

Apparel Maker Lowers View

As It Posts Jump in Profit

Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. isn't as immune as it used to be to the cautious American consumer.

The maker of handbags, shoes and apparel blamed a slowdown in its North American business on a reduction in mall traffic and said it expected consumers to be more conservative during the holiday season.

The outlook came as the company posted strong quarter, buoyed by international growth. Profit for the three months ended Sept. 27 rose 42% to $207 million from $145.8 million a year earlier. Total revenue -- which includes licensing revenue -- jumped 43% to $1.06 billion. North American revenue increased 30% to $802 million, while sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increased 11%.

-- Suzanne Kapner

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141104eab50000t




Tech
Xiaomi to Invest $1 Billion in TV Content; Xiaomi Joins Chinese Software Giants in Race to Control Video Programming in China.

By Eva Dou 
206 words
3 November 2014
22:33
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Taipei¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. will invest $1 billion to acquire television content, the company said Tuesday, as it joins Chinese software giants in a race to control video programming in the country.

The company also announced it hired Chen Tong, former chief editor of web portal Sina, as vice president in charge of content investments.

¡§Xiaomi TV¡¦s content must become even more rich and colorful, and become the weather vane leading the industry,¡¨ the company wrote on its television division¡¦s official Weibo microblog.

The move comes shortly after Jack Ma, founder of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., met with Hollywood executives to discuss possibilities of co-financing upcoming movies.

Chinese Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been scrambling for exclusive content as they vie for the eyeballs of China¡¦s more than 600 million Internet users. These viewers increasingly watch videos on smartphones.

Xiaomi is the world¡¦s fourth-largest smartphone maker and began making smart TVs last year.

China became the world¡¦s second-biggest movie market in 2012, behind the U.S.

Document WSJO000020141104eab4001xi




Business
Corporate Watch: News Digest

847 words
4 November 2014
12:29
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Wal-Mart Stores

Price to Retake Asia Helm

As President and CEO

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is bringing back Scott Price to oversee its Asia division less than six months after the company relocated the executive from Hong Kong to take an international strategy position at the company¡¦s Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Mr. Price will add his old job of president and chief executive for Asia to his new, Arkansas-based role leading real estate, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate strategy for Wal-Mart¡¦s international operations, which include approximately 6,100 stores in 26 countries outside of the U.S.

He returns to the Asia job as Wal-Mart¡¦s operations in China, Japan and India are grappling with choppy sales results, compliance issues and government regulation.

The post was left vacant after Mr. Price¡¦s successor and former China head, Greg Foran, left the region to take over Wal-Mart¡¦s U.S. operations in August. Since then, the company has decided to modify the way its regional executive roles are set up to allow more autonomy for the business leaders in individual markets, Wal-Mart spokesman Ray Bracy said.

¡§Scott will travel to Asia with some regularity, but the role is different now,¡¨ Mr. Bracy said. ¡§It will be less of a day-to-day role.¡¨

Shelly Banjo

Xiaomi

Smartphone Maker to Invest

$1 Billion for TV Content

Taipei¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. will invest $1 billion to acquire television content, the company said Tuesday, as it joins Chinese software giants in a race to control video programming in the country.

The company also said it hired Chen Tong, former chief editor of Web portal Sina, as vice president in charge of content investments.

¡§Xiaomi TV¡¦s content must become even more rich and colorful, and become the weather vane leading the industry,¡¨ the company wrote on its television division¡¦s official Weibo microblog.

The move comes shortly after Jack Ma, founder of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., met with Hollywood executives to discuss possibilities of co-financing coming movies. Chinese Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been scrambling for exclusive content as they vie for the eyeballs of China¡¦s more than 600 million Internet users. These viewers increasingly watch videos on smartphones.

Xiaomi is the world¡¦s fourth-largest smartphone maker and began making smart TVs last year.

China became the world¡¦s second-biggest movie market in 2012, behind the U.S.

Eva Dou

Apparel Maker Lowers View

As It Posts Jump in Profit

Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. isn¡¦t as immune as it used to be to the cautious American consumer.

The high-flyingmaker of trendy handbags, shoes and apparel blamed a slowdown in its North American business on a reduction in mall traffic and said it expected consumers to be more conservative with their spending during the coming holiday season.

The news showed that this fall¡¦s slowdown in the apparel business proved punishing not only for turnaround cases like J.C. Penney Co., but also some of retail¡¦s better performers. Kors lowered its forecast for sales excluding newly opened or closed stores for the year.

Shares in Kors were down nearly 8% at $71.96 in Tuesday morning trading.

The tempered outlook came as the company posted an otherwise strong quarter, buoyed by international growth. Profit for the three months ended Sept. 27 rose 42% to $207 million from $145.8 million a year earlier. Total revenue¡Xwhich includes licensing revenue¡Xjumped 43% to $1.06 billion. North American revenue increased 30% to $802 million, while sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increased 11%. European revenue more than doubled to $238 million, with sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increasing 41%.

Michael Kors had defied the expectations of some analysts and investors who argued that the company couldn¡¦t sustain its momentum as its products were distributed to an ever wider clientele. The company had argued that while it expected to sales to slow eventually, its brand of luxury populism would ensure a large audience for Kors as an accessible luxury brand.

John Idol, chief executive, said the decline in mall traffic was more significant during the quarter than expected and that sales growth excluding newly opened or closed stores and the rate at which Kors turned browsers into buyers ¡§wasn¡¦t as high as we anticipated.¡¨

Kors isn¡¦t ramping up promotions beyond what was planned, despite an environment that is very price sensitive. ¡§It¡¦s the right thing to do for a luxury brand,¡¨ Mr. Idol said.

The forecast for the current quarter was weaker than what Wall Street was expecting. For the year, the company now expects same-store sales to rise by a percentage in the mid teens, versus its previous call for a high teens increase. Kors raised its overall revenue guidance slightly, to a range of $4.3 billion to $4.4 billion.

Kors¡¦s board also authorized the company to buy back $1 billion in stock.

Suzanne Kapner

Document WSJO000020141104eab40053g


 Burger King Aims to Sell Whoppers in India ¡X on eBay
WSJ Blogs, 01:15, 4 November 2014, 438 words, By Newley Purnell, (English)
Indian consumers have in recent months shown a penchant for ordering goods like smartphones in short-lived, online sales called "flash sales." Now Burger King is trying to get them to pre-order its sandwiches -- on eBay.
Document WCWSJB0020141104eab40012x

 China's Xiaomi to invest $1 billion to expand internet TV content
Reuters, 02:48, 4 November 2014, 246 words, Paul Carsten and Gerry Shih, (English)
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's Xiaomi Technology Co Ltd [XTC.UL] said on Tuesday it would spend $1 billion to expand its internet TV content as the world's third largest smartphone maker ramps up its push into the living room, and a market ...
Document WCLBA00020141104eab4002jp

 China's Xiaomi says to invest $1 bln in TV content building
Reuters, 01:19, 4 November 2014, 171 words, (English)
BEIJING Nov 4 (Reuters) - China's Xiaomi Technology Co Ltd , the world's third-largest smartphone manufacturer, will invest $1 billion in television content building, the company said on its official Weibo microblog on Tuesday.
Document WCLBA00020141104eab40025y



Corporate News: Google's Android Begins to Top Out

By Rolfe Winkler   
692 words
3 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Google Inc.'s dominance over the smartphone landscape appears to be topping out, but the company is gaining more control over the devices that run its Android mobile operating system.

Android ran 84% of smartphones shipped globally in the third quarter, according to research firm Strategy Analytics, down slightly from 85% in the second quarter.

"Android's global smartphone market share is peaking," said Neil Mawston, executive director of Strategy Analytics. "Unless there is an unlikely collapse in rival Apple iPhone volumes in the future, Android is probably never going to go much above the 85% global market share ceiling."

Market share for Apple Inc.'s mobile operating system was 12% in the third quarter. Microsoft Corp.'s Windows Phone captured 3% market share and BlackBerry Ltd.'s devices had 1%.

Even if Android's market share doesn't go any higher, there is still good news for Google.

For starters, the market overall is still growing. Strategy Analytics forecasts 12% growth in smartphone shipments in 2015.

Google also appears to be turning the tide on the growth of so-called Android forks -- versions of the mobile operating software that are developed independently and don't come with Google's lucrative mobile apps.

As a percentage of total Android shipments, forks made up 37% in the third quarter, down slightly from 39% in the second quarter.

Google makes no money on Android itself, since it gives away the operating system free to device makers. It profits from revenue generated by advertisements that appear in apps like Google Search, Google Maps and YouTube, as well as a cut of sales of apps, files, subscriptions, and the like sold through the Google Play Store.

Mr. Mawston chalks up the decline in Android forks to a "maturing" China smartphone market, where most forked Android devices are sold.

In addition, Google is asserting control over its operating software through its newly launched Android One program, which is designed to provide cheap, reliable smartphones to consumers in emerging markets such as India. Those phones come with Google's various services installed.

Meantime, Samsung Electronics Co.'s dominance over other Android handset makers is waning, reducing the threat that the Korean hardware maker could wrest more control from Google. In the third quarter of this year, 25% of smartphones shipped were Samsung devices. That figure fell from the year prior, when it stood at 35%.

Samsung ships mostly Android devices and long has been dominant among Android vendors thanks in part to big commissions it pays to smartphone distributors, particularly in emerging markets. That gives them an incentive to push its devices over rivals.

Yet Samsung is losing out to startups like China's Xiaomi Inc., which are undercutting the Korean giant on price.

Samsung sells its smartphones at a premium and captures bigger profit margins on each device sold, while Xiaomi prices its devices closer to the cost of making them and makes its profit instead on the sale of accessories and software add-ons.

In the previous two years, as Samsung's market share peaked, it tried to assert more independence from Google by distributing more of its own services on its Android devices while simultaneously playing down the fact that Google's software powered them. That sparked concerns inside Google that it could lose some control over the operating system, according to people familiar with the company's internal deliberations.

Earlier this year, Samsung and Google reached a detente of sorts, when the companies agreed to a broad patent cross-licensing deal.

The biggest challenge to Google's mobile dominance could come from regulators. European Union antitrust authorities are poised to unleash a formal investigation into Android in the wake of concerns that Google shuts out rivals in promoting services such as Google Maps.

The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this year about Google's strict agreements with handset makers that required them to feature those services prominently if they wanted access to the services in the first place.

A Google spokesman declined to comment.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141103eab30003g




WSJ.D Live (A Special Report) --- No Stores; No Ads; Just a Lot of Sales: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra describes how the Chinese phone maker relies on its 'family' of customers

By Rebecca Blumenstein   
847 words
3 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
R7
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Hugo Barra left Google Inc. a year ago to join Chinese-based Xiaomi Inc., the manufacturer of the best-selling phone in the world's biggest market, and a company that operates almost entirely without traditional advertising or retail stores. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in 2013 and is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year. The Wall Street Journal's deputy editor in chief, Rebecca Blumenstein, talked to Mr. Barra, Xiaomi's global vice president. Edited excerpts follow.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: What is the biggest contributor to Xiaomi's success? Is it a cult that you've created in China?

MR. BARRA: Our core belief is basically that if you treat your users or customers as friends, if you listen to them carefully for their feedback, if you respect their views, if you really take care of them, they become attached to you and to your products. They tell their friends. They forgive your mistakes. They help you out. It's kind of like becoming part of a family. So, I prefer family to cult.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Many companies say they involve customers or fans in beta tests and testing. Does Xiaomi do completely external beta testing constantly?

MR. BARRA: That's a nice way to look at it. We have this website, which is our user forum. On the China side of the website, we have about 30 million registered users, and about 400,000 posts every day, from product feedback, bug reports, questions, feature recommendations and so on. On top of that, about 10% of people who buy our smartphones are on what we call our beta track. They've chosen to receive software updates every Friday, with new features, some of which are still sort of only half baked, half implemented, because they want to provide feedback.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: You sell your phones at cost. You are a $10 billion company in revenue, perhaps one of the fastest-growing tech companies ever. But how are you going to make money?

MR. BARRA: We've built our own e-commerce platform from the very beginning. We sell the majority of our products on e-commerce that way. And it's not just phones. We have about 1,000 SKUs on our website.

If you look at our product portfolio, it's incredibly simple and focused. This year, we've only announced two new smartphone models, Redmi Note and Mi4. These models stay in the market for up to 24 months, so it's a very long life cycle. The economies of scale are huge. And all marketing is social media.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: There have been some headlines about the security of data stored in Xiaomi phones being in data centers in China. Are you moving data centers outside of China to counter such concerns?

MR. BARRA: I actually think Chinese companies are, to a certain extent, held to a higher privacy standard than most companies out there.

We are moving to a global infrastructure with data centers in Asia Pacific, North America, and next year India.

That will help with performance. It helps us comply with local data protection regulations and so on. But then, it has this amazing benefit of making people feel better that they have their data next to them.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Jony Ive, Apple's senior vice president of design, has criticized certain phone makers for producing phones that looked a lot like iPhones. He called it outright theft. Many people took that to be, even if he didn't say Xiaomi, a direct slap at Xiaomi. What's your reaction?

MR. BARRA: I don't think Jony mentioned the word "Xiaomi." Our designers, our engineers, are inspired by great products, by great design out there. In today's world, who isn't? Point me to a product in our industry that had completely unique design language. You're not going to be able to find one.

Apple is the world's design Mecca. And Apple inspires itself on great products and great ideas as well. The iPhone 6, in my opinion the most beautiful smartphone ever built, without a doubt, carries design language that's very HTC-like from a few years back, of course with an astonishing twist of Apple innovation on top of it. But it is a somewhat familiar design language.

It's fascinating that Apple took existing ideas that were very good, added their twist of innovation on top, and in many cases actually made those ideas better or much better. Like, quick settings on iOS is much better than quick settings on Android. But it was on Android well before you'd find it on an iOS device. So, this idea of building upon great ideas and adding a twist of innovation is what they do. It's what we do.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141103eab30000s


 South Korea Sustains Growth in Exports to China in October
WSJ Blogs, 02:13, 2 November 2014, 442 words, By Kwanwoo Jun, (English)
Trade data showing South Korean exports to China grew last month may be a relief for policy makers in Seoul¡Xfor now.
South Korea sustained growth in its shipments to China, its biggest trade partner, for a second straight month in October. ...
Document WCWSJB0020141102eab20002t



Tech
HTC Sees Brighter Fourth-Quarter Sales; Smartphone Maker HTC Faces Competition From China, Apple but Expects to Stay Profitable

By Aries Poon 
554 words
31 October 2014
02:13
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. on Friday predicted sales would at least stay flat in the fourth quarter after three years of decline.

The Taiwanese smartphone maker expects revenue of 43 billion New Taiwan dollars to NT$47 billion (US$1.41 billion to US$1.55 billion) for the current quarter ending Dec. 31. The target range represents a growth of 2.7% to 12% from NT$41.86 billion in the third quarter, and as much as 9.6% higher than the NT$42.90 billion it fetched in the same period in 2013.

HTC also expects to remain profitable for the third straight quarter. In the three months ended Sept. 30, HTC reported a net profit of NT$640 million, compared with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion a year earlier.

We are forecasting a pretty material increase in handset shipment volume [for the fourth quarter],¡¨ Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang told investors during a conference call. Mr. Chang declined to disclose the company¡¦s shipment forecast.

¡§I hope the momentum will extend into the first quarter of next year,¡¨ Mr. Chang said.

But analysts say HTC still faces headwinds in a market dominated by Apple Inc. and fast-growing Chinese players.

A challenge HTC and most Android handset makers face in this quarter is the stronger-than-expected demand for the new iPhones. Apple recently launched two iPhones, one with a bigger 5? inch screen. Both offer one of the biggest revamps to the iPhone in two years and are well-timed for the year-end holiday season.

HTC, once the world¡¦s top smartphone maker by volume, dropped out of the top 10 largest handset vendors by shipments last year. Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. have been grabbing HTC¡¦s share in the high-end market, while low-cost Chinese makers have been squeezing the Taiwanese company in the mid- and low-end markets.

HTC is hoping to reverse years of shrinking sales by beefing up its midrange product lines and expanding into non-smartphone businesses.

The company has recently added a selfie-focused smartphone to its midprice Desire line. It has also unveiled the Nexus 9 tablet with Google Inc., a waterproof action camera and software for taking selfie photos.

Mr. Chang said HTC has plans to launch new smartphones over the next two quarters, but declined to give more details.

He also said the project with Google doesn¡¦t mean HTC is returning to contract manufacturing of phones and tablets for other brands.

¡§We are open to, and will also consider, co-branding opportunities with partners,¡¨ he added.

But the midtier market is getting crowded, which complicates HTC¡¦s reliance on that segment as a solution, analysts say.

Samsung said Thursday it would seek to compete head-on against low-priced Chinese rivals amid falling sales in China. Chinese brands like Xiaomi Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. and Lenovo Group Ltd. are already dominating the that market.

¡§Apparently HTC is trying to stay away from the competition from Apple in the high-end segment. But the smartphone market, especially the mid- and low-end segments, is still very tough,¡¨ said KGI Securities analyst Richard Ko.

Document WSJO000020141031eaav0015p




Rise of Chinese Phones Breaks Samsung's Grip

By Jonathan Cheng and Min-Jeong Lee   
771 words
31 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

SEOUL -- The rapid deterioration of Samsung Electronics Co.'s mobile-phone business raises the question: Will Chinese companies soon rule the smartphone market?

The world's biggest smartphone maker by sales said Thursday that its third-quarter profit dropped 49% as less-expensive handsets, chiefly from China, ate away at its business. A trio of market-tracking firms confirmed that the South Korean technology company is losing ground even faster than many analysts had predicted.

Although Chinese handset makers have been pushing into smartphones for several years, the pace of their rise -- and Samsung's decline -- over the last half-year has been stunning.

Since the beginning of this year, global smartphone shipments have ballooned for Chinese smartphone makers including Xiaomi Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co. Handsets from Chinese companies now account for 38% of the global market, more than Samsung and Apple Inc. combined, according to research firm Strategy Analytics. Xiaomi jumped to third place in the global market, behind Samsung and Apple, with 5.6% in the third quarter. It had 3.9% in the first quarter.

Samsung's smartphone market share tumbled to 25% in the third quarter from 31% in the first, Strategy Analytics said. The tech company's mobile-phone profit margin dropped to 7% from 20%. Samsung blamed that decline in part on increased marketing costs to clear a glut of unsold smartphones that piled up in China and elsewhere.

Apple's iPhone had 12% of the market in the third quarter, down from 15% in the first.

Samsung isn't the only South Korean company struggling as low-cost Chinese rivals catch up. The Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade forecast recently that Chinese manufacturers will likely catch up with or surpass their Korean rivals within five years in areas including ships, petrochemicals, steel and textiles. In mid- to low-price smartphones, the government research group predicted that China would outstrip Korea within two years.

To be sure, gaining market share doesn't guarantee profit growth and can erode earnings for everyone. It isn't clear how much of a profit closely held Xiaomi or Huawei make on smartphones, if any.

But Samsung says it is determined to fight back. Samsung executives said Thursday that they would seek to compete more directly with rivals in mid- and low-price phones, where Xiaomi, Huawei and Lenovo sell smartphones for about $300. An equivalent model from Samsung can cost twice as much.

Kim Hyun-joon, a senior vice president in Samsung's mobile-communications business, said the company would tweak the design and user interface of its lower-end devices to set itself apart from its rivals.

Samsung also will seek to produce devices more economically. "The key is efficiency, to increase the number of components shared across mid- to low-end models, so that we can further leverage economies of scale," Mr. Kim said.

Samsung also is expected to shuffle executives, as the company typically does toward year-end, in its mobile division.

"Helped in part by management changes, we expect Samsung to work aggressively to retake business lost to Xiaomi and others in China," Jefferies analyst Sundeep Bajikar wrote in a note to clients.

Following poor earnings earlier this year, hundreds of senior managers in Samsung's mobile division took a 25% cut in their first-half bonuses, people familiar with the matter said. Executives and senior managers are bracing for more cost cuts, a person familiar with the situation said recently.

Even with Samsung's new strategy for dealing with its low-cost rivals, the company suggested the best days for its smartphone business may be behind it. Samsung's third-quarter profit margin of 7% for its mobile business was the lowest since the beginning of 2009. It followed 10 straight quarters in which the division's margin exceeded 15%. Mr. Kim said the mobile division's new goal is simply to maintain a double-digit margin.

Samsung still is going strong in semiconductors, a steady source of profit since before its smartphone successes of the past several years. The chip and components business contributed 57% of the company's third-quarter profit -- a contrast to just six months ago, when the mobile division represented 76% of Samsung's earnings.

Samsung's memory-chip business is riding strong demand, and the company is hoping that sales of processors will accelerate with the opening of a high-tech factory to start mass production by year-end.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141031eaav0002q

 UPDATE 1-Samsung Elec seeks China comeback with first metallic smartphones
Reuters, 02:38, 31 October 2014, 610 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd unveiled two mid-tier handsets with a premium design as it prepared to deliver a riposte to its low-priced Chinese rivals and reclaim its title as the top brand in the world's biggest ...
Document WCLBA00020141031eaav002jw

 Samsung Plots China Comeback With New Phone Models
WSJ Blogs, 02:20, 31 October 2014, 550 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. promised it would fight back against Chinese smartphone manufacturers, and it sure didn't waste any time doing so.
One day after reporting a 49% third-quarter net earnings decline from the same period a year earlier, ...
Document WCWSJB0020141031eaav001b9

 UPDATE 1-Sony reports narrower Q2 loss than estimated on strong PlayStation 4 sales
Reuters, 02:11, 31 October 2014, 394 words, Sophie Knight, (English)
TOKYO, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Japan's Sony Corp reported a second-quarter operating loss on Friday that was narrower than analysts had estimated, as blockbuster sales of its PlayStation 4 games console reduced the impact of a sluggish ...
Document WCLBA00020141031eaav002e7

 For China¡¦s Online Shoppers, Obama¡¦s Visit Nothing to Cheer About
WSJ Blogs, 19:11, 30 October 2014, 539 words, (English)
For many Beijing residents, the upcoming APEC forum means a six-day holiday and¡Xif the government has its way¡Xhopefully bluer skies.
But the meeting of world leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in the Chinese capital in ...
Document WCWSJB0020141031eaav000b5



In Smartphone Push, Lenovo Completes Motorola Deal

By Juro Osawa   
296 words
31 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
16
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Lenovo Group Ltd. said Thursday it completed its $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility, as the world's largest personal-computer maker continues its expansion in the global smartphone market.

The deal with Lenovo opens a new chapter for Motorola, which was unprofitable as a unit of Google Inc. Lenovo, which makes the ThinkPad line of PCs and Yoga line of tablet-PC convertibles, first unveiled its plans to buy Motorola from Google in January.

Motorola intends to turn around its business by taking advantage of Lenovo's efficient supply chain and distribution networks as well as economies of scale that could bring down material-procurement costs. Lenovo Chief Executive Yang Yuanqing has said he expects to make Motorola profitable within four to six quarters after completing the deal.

Lenovo will operate Motorola as a wholly owned subsidiary. Motorola's headquarters will stay in Chicago and President Rick Osterloh will continue to head the business, while Liu Jun, the head of Lenovo's mobile business, will become Motorola's chairman, Lenovo said.

Founded in China, Lenovo bought International Business Machines Corp.'s PC business in 2005. The company, now based in both China and the U.S., overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. to become the No. 1 PC maker by shipments last year.

As the global PC market has become saturated, Lenovo is seeking new sources of growth by expanding its smartphone business, trying to take on Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in the global market. In the third quarter, Lenovo was the world's fourth-largest smartphone vendor with a 5.2% share, behind Samsung, Apple and China's Xiaomi Inc., according to research firm IDC.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141030eaav0001m




World News: Asia: South Korea Struggles as Exports to China Falter

By Kwanwoo Jun   
489 words
31 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
4
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

South Korea's economy failed to pick up in September as expected, deepening concerns over the recent poor performance of the country's exports to China.

Korea is an export powerhouse, but its shipments to China -- one of its largest markets -- are faltering because of increased competition from local producers. Samsung Electronics Co.'s third-quarter net profit, for instance, fell almost 50% on year, largely because rival Chinese handset manufacturers are snapping up market share.

Such developments are hurting Korea's economy, which exports huge amounts of parts to China for assembly, as well as finished goods. On Thursday, the government said industrial production grew only 0.1% on month in September, below economists' expectations of 1% growth.

That was a surprise because exports had recovered somewhat in September after declining in previous months. The disappointing data suggest manufacturers are running down inventories, says Yuanta Securities economist Lee Chul-hee -- hardly a vote of confidence in future exports to China.

The lackluster reading was "largely due to a surprise drop in electronics output, likely on the back of slower demand in China," said Barclays PLC economist Wai Ho Leong.

Consumer demand in China has been hit by an anticorruption drive by President Xi Jinping's administration. Lower-cost mobile handsets made by local companies such as Xiaomi Inc. also are eating South Korea's market share in China.

China is the destination of about a quarter of South Korea's total direct exports. Exports make up about half of South Korea's gross domestic product, and the country had regularly run double-digit export growth rates in the past. This year, the central bank expects the economy to grow a moderate 3.5% amid moribund exports.

President Park Geun-hye's government is trying to boost local demand to cut reliance on volatile overseas markets. In July, it announced a $40 billion stimulus package to encourage spending and jump-start the property market. The central bank cut interest rates in October to a record low of 2%.

The cuts so far have spurred neither the manufacturing sector nor local demand, with consumer confidence at a three-month low in October. The central bank's ability to further cut rates is limited given concerns over already high household debt levels, Mr. Lee said.

Seoul wants to deepen its domestic economy and move into higher-tech areas, fearing China soon will be a challenger in sectors such as electronics, steelmaking and ship building that South Korea has dominated until now.

A South Korean state research organization this week warned that Chinese manufacturers likely will catch up with or surpass their Korean rivals within five years in many areas. Some economists, though, say the threat to Korea has been overstated, betting that China is still far from closing in.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141030eaav0000l


 China to Eclipse South Korea in Most Export Industries by 2018, Report Says
WSJ Blogs, 02:02, 30 October 2014, 532 words, By Kwanwoo Jun, (English)
Is China doing to Korea what Korea did to Japan in manufacturing?
Increasingly it looks like it, according to a recent report by a Seoul-based state research house.
Document WCWSJB0020141030eaau0012x



Tech
Samsung, Apple Lose Ground to China Smartphone Makers; Market Share for Industry Leader Samsung and Apple Decline as Chinese Smartphones Gain Popularity

By Lorraine Luk And Gillian Wong 
707 words
29 October 2014
22:52
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The erosion of Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s and Apple Inc.¡¦s dominance of the global smartphone market accelerated during the third quarter, as Chinese makers of low-cost phones continued to undercut the industry leaders, according to data from three market-share trackers released Thursday.

Samsung, the world¡¦s largest smartphone maker by shipments, saw its market share fall to 24.7% from 35% during the three months ended Sept. 30, its steepest decline since it became the industry leader in the third quarter of 2011, according to data provider Strategy Analytics. Upstart Chinese phone maker Xiaomi Inc. rose to third place with a 5.6% share, up from 2.1%, as its global handset shipments more than tripled.

Apple remained No. 2, with a 12.3% share, but its market share fell from 13.4% as supply problems held back the shipment of its latest-model iPhones, which went on sale in mid-September.

Market-share data released by IDC and Counterpoint Research Thursday showed similar results.

The latest data came after Samsung posted Thursday a sharply lower third-quarter net profit as intensified competition from Chinese smartphone makers hurt the South Korean technology giant¡¦s mobile business.

Linda Sui of Strategy Analytics estimated that Xiaomi was the fourth-most profitable handset maker in the third quarter, trailing Apple, Samsung and LG Electronics Inc. Xiaomi¡¦s preference for low-cost online distribution channels instead of bricks-and-mortar shops helped its profitability, she said.

Xiaomi, which means ¡§Little Rice¡¨ in Chinese, is known for its marketing savvy. The Beijing-based smartphone maker, founded in 2010, has been growing quickly across Asia by selling low-cost handsets that don¡¦t skimp on features, and has created a cultlike fan base among early adopters of new gadgets.

The company has also used social media in growing its popularity. Chairman Lei Jun, who has often been compared with Apple¡¦s late founder Steve Jobs for his presentation style at product launches, has more than 11 million followers on China¡¦s Twitter-like platform, Sina Weibo.

Looking to expand its business overseas, Xiaomi last year hired Hugo Barra, who was an executive at Google¡¦s Android business. The company has expanded into Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and India.

During the second quarter, Xiaomi overtook Samsung as the top smartphone maker in China, the world¡¦s largest smartphone market by shipments, according to market research firm Canalys.

Xiaomi has been expanding into other markets outside China, including Singapore, Malaysia, India and Indonesia and has been borrowing money to fund the expansion.

But industry observers say that despite Xiaomi¡¦s popularity on its home turf, it will face challenges getting consumers familiar with its brand overseas, where it remains relatively unknown.

Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co., meanwhile, have been expanding aggressively outside China. Lenovo¡¦s smartphone sales have been growing fast in Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe, while Huawei has been increasing its presence in the Middle East and Africa as well as Latin America. In emerging markets, both Huawei and Lenovo are challenging Samsung¡¦s dominance by selling inexpensive models with competitive technological features.

IDC said Samsung¡¦s third-quarter market share dropped 8.7 percentage points to 23.8% as its shipments fell 8.2% from a year earlier. Apple¡¦s market share fell to 12% from 12.9%, while Xiaomi came in third with a market share of 5.3%, up from 2.1% a year earlier. Lenovo ranked fourth with a market share of 5.2%, up from 4.7%, followed by LG¡¦s 5.1%.

Lenovo¡¦s market share is expected to rise after it completes the acquisition of U.S. handset maker Motorola Mobility later this year.

Counterpoint analyst Neil Shah said Samsung has been losing market share at every price point: in the premium segment to Apple; in the middle tier to Xiaomi, and Huawei; and in the bottom tier to Lenovo and a number of local brands such as Micromax in India and Mito in Indonesia.

Juro Osawa contributed to this article.

Document WSJO000020141030eaau001gu




Tech
Samsung Electronics Third-Quarter Profit Falls Sharply; Samsung¡¦s Mobile Business Continued to Lose Ground to Low-Cost Smartphone Makers

By Min-Jeong Lee 
708 words
29 October 2014
21:33
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Samsung Electronics Co. on Thursday said its quarterly net profit nearly halved, as its mobile business continued to lose ground to low-cost Chinese smartphone makers¡Xa rivalry that is expected to intensify.

Samsung also warned that uncertainty remains for its mobile business in the current quarter, since it will have to ramp up marketing efforts to counter an anticipated year-end surge in competitors¡¦ smartphone launches.

Separately, data from three market-share trackers released Thursday showed Samsung¡¦s share of global smartphone sales fell sharply during the three months ended September. Although still ranked No. 1, Samsung had around a quarter of the smartphone market by sales, versus roughly a third just a year ago, according to International Data Corp., Counterpoint Research and Strategy Analytics.

Samsung said its net profit during the quarter ended in September fell 49% versus a year earlier, to 4.2 trillion won ($4 billion). That followed a 20% profit decline in the previous quarter.

The quarterly earnings drop was the result of a 74% year-over-year decline in profit from Samsung¡¦s mobile division, to 1.75 trillion won, the lowest since the second quarter of 2011. Weaker smartphone sales and lower prices ground Samsung¡¦s mobile margins down to 7%, the thinnest since the company began offering smartphones.

Samsung¡¦s semiconductor business replaced mobile as the company¡¦s largest profit driver for the first time in three years, accounting for 56% of total operating profit and logging a margin of 23%, up from 21% a year.earlier. Mobile-division profit accounted for 43% of Samsung¡¦s operating profit; as recently as the beginning of the year, the division had accounted for roughly three-quarters of total profit.

¡§We will focus on obtaining a sustainable double-digit percentage margin¡¨ in mobile phones, Kim Hyun-joon, a senior vice president at Samsung¡¦s mobile unit said during a conference call following the earnings release.

Company executives said they would try harder to differentiate Samsung¡¦s handsets from those of competitors next year by adopting more flexible displays and metal frames. But analysts expect the introduction of next-generation devices like foldable-screen phones in sizable volumes to be difficult due to technological hurdles.

Regaining a foothold against low-cost brands will remain a challenge amid heightened price competition, analysts say, leaving the company with a bleak outlook for its mobile unit.

Upstart Chinese phone-maker Xiaomi Inc. recently overtook Samsung in China as the largest smartphone vendor in the country, and figures released Thursday showed it jumped to the No. 3 spot globally¡Xlargely driven by its strong China performance.

In the latest sign of how important the China market is to Samsung, the Samsung Group Wednesday released a rare statement from Vice Chairman Jay Y. Lee, the son of ailing Chairman Lee Kun-hee who is seen as the conglomerate¡¦s next leader, on a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

¡§Samsung will actively expand its business in China in accordance with the government¡¦s policies and hope to be a loved company within China that makes contributions to its society,¡¨ Mr. Lee told Chinese leaders, according to the statement.

China isn't only an important smartphone market for Samsung¡Xit also is expected to play an increasingly large role for the company¡¦s chip business. In 2012, Samsung unveiled plans to invest $7 billion for a new chip plant in China over the course of several years. Following an initial investment of $2.3 billion, the company began producing memory chips in 2013 from the plant in Xi¡¦an city.

Samsung¡¦s total operating profit during the quarter ended in September slid 60% from a year earlier to 4.1 trillion won on a 20% fall in revenue to 47.4 trillion won for the quarter, in line with market expectations.

Samsung shipped 79.2 million smartphones during the quarter ended Sept. 30, a drop from the 88.4 million units shipped during the same period a year earlier, according to Strategy Analytics.

The company didn¡¦t disclose exact shipment figures for its mobile phones.

Document WSJO000020141030eaat00001


 Taiwan Puts Curbs on Study in China, WeChat for Top Officials
WSJ Blogs, 01:16, 30 October 2014, 563 words, (English)
Senior Taiwanese officials have been banned from studying in China, a move that comes just months after a key policy official was accused of leaking secrets to Beijing.
Document WCWSJB0020141030eaau00209

 Xiaomi moves into third place in global smartphone war
Reuters, 00:58, 30 October 2014, 202 words, Gerry Shih, (English)
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's Xiaomi Inc has become the world's third-largest smartphone vendor just three years after first hitting the market, trailing only Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Apple Inc, according to a new industry study.
Document WCLBA00020141030eaau001xh

 Five Takeaways From Samsung¡¦s Earnings
WSJ Blogs, 20:37, 29 October 2014, 873 words, By Jonathan Cheng and Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. said its third-quarter net profit nearly halved, as its mobile division continued to suffer from heightened global competition.?Here's a look at five key takeaways from the company's difficult quarter:?
Document WCWSJB0020141030eaau000p3

 UPDATE 2-Samsung seeks smartphone revamp to arrest profit slide
Reuters, 23:24, 29 October 2014, 444 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd on Thursday said it would revamp its smartphone line-up to take on competitors in the rapidly growing mid-to-low range segment, after third-quarter earnings set it on course for its worst ...
Document WCLBA00020141030eaau001gt



LG Electronics Buoyed By Smartphone Sales

By Min-Jeong Lee   
435 words
30 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

SEOUL -- LG Electronics Inc. said Wednesday its third-quarter profit nearly doubled from a year earlier after it sold a record number of smartphones.

The South Korean company's mobile devices continued to gain market share from bigger rival Samsung Electronics Co., particularly at home. But globally, LG is struggling against Apple Inc. and like Samsung faces a newer challenge from fast-rising Chinese handset makers.

LG said its net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 87% to 203 billion won ($194 million) from 108.5 billion won a year earlier.

The company sold 16.8 million smartphones during the quarter, up 39% from 12 million sold a year earlier and a record for the company. Operating profit doubled to 461 billion won, with the mobile division accounting for more than a third of profits, the company said.

Following its second consecutive quarter of profit in the mobile division, LG said it would stick to a two-track smartphone strategy, spearheaded by the company's premium G series and cheaper L series models.

Local analysts estimate LG's global market share came close to 5% in the latest quarter, slightly higher than last year's levels. But a continued tug of war is expected against upstart Chinese brands such as Xiaomi Inc., which is estimated by analysts to have sold a similar number of smartphones as LG during the same period.

LG is better positioned in South Korea, where its handsets grabbed a 27% market share in the third quarter, its highest in years, and up from just 18% a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research. During the same period, Samsung's share slipped to 60% from 66%, according to the same estimates.

LG executives hope the progress it is making at home will translate into overseas sales.

"Before, they [overseas partners] didn't even spare us a glance. But now, most carriers take our products without any doubt," said Chris Yie, a vice president for marketing at LG's mobile division, in a recent interview.

The number of global carriers that placed orders for LG's latest G3 smartphone at launch was roughly 170, up by 30% from the previous model, Mr. Yie said.

The big four U.S. telecommunications companies -- Verizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., T-Mobile US Inc. and Sprint Corp. -- all sell the G3.

Analysts estimate Samsung to have had roughly 200 carrier partners for the launch of its latest top-of-the-line model, the Galaxy S5.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141029eaau00017




Xiaomi's $1 Billion Loan Draws A Big Crowd

By Prudence Ho   
721 words
30 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
19
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Bankers still feeling the buzz of Alibaba Group's blockbuster listing last month have been casting around for the next big tech deal out of China. If the appetite by creditors to lend to Xiaomi Inc. is anything to go by, this four-year-old smartphone maker could be it.

Xiaomi, which sells more smartphones in China than Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc., has borrowed $1 billion from 29 banks for a three-year loan, its first move to tap overseas funds for cash. The company has moved beyond China to sell in India and Indonesia, and a person familiar with the loan said Xiaomi is borrowing the money to expand overseas.

The loan is set to be completed on Friday, people familiar with the matter said. The lead bankers on the loan are Deutsche Bank AG, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley. Among others are ICBC Asia, a subsidiary Chinese lender of Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Brazil's Banco do Brasil, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Credit Suisse Group SA and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.

In attracting so many banks to its loan, Xiaomi has beaten Alibaba, which borrowed $8 billion last year from 22 banks, many of which were eager to get in on the Chinese e-commerce giant's IPO mandate, bankers said.

Alibaba's $25 billion IPO in New York last month was the largest ever, and all six of its lead banks were among the lenders on its $8 billion loan. Those six were Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan and Citigroup Inc.

Banks often charge less on loans than on other investment-banking deals, but lending can help build rapport that can lead to advising those clients on IPOs or mergers.

"Investment banks see business opportunities with [Chinese technology firms] in the future, and participating in a syndicated loan could be a good step in starting a relationship," said Julien Begasse de Dhaem, Asia-Pacific head of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Stanley.

Bankers said Xiaomi isn't planning to go public soon. The company declined to comment.

Xiaomi is borrowing at attractive terms. Banks are charging 2.325 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate for the $1 billion it is borrowing in two tranches. Companies with similar ratings to Xiaomi often are charged 2.5 percentage points over Libor.

The number of banks on the Xiaomi deal isn't a record in Asia, but it is rare that an unlisted company attracts so many lenders for a debut syndicated loan, according to bankers.

Closely held Indonesian conglomerate CT Corp. borrowed $1.3 billion from more than 30 banks in March. But CT has been borrowing in the international markets for years.

"Lenders feel more comfortable now with the technology industry than they did a few years back," said Amit Khattar, Asia head of loan capital markets at Deutsche Bank.

Still, banks have turned more cautious toward lending to Chinese borrowers, especially as the economy slows. But the right credit always attracts lenders, said Sonia Li, Asia-Pacific head of syndicated and leveraged finance at J.P. Morgan.

Set up just four years ago, Xiaomi has been expanding quickly. In July, the firm started selling its phone in India, where early sales have been so encouraging that Xiaomi is considering making phones there. India is the world's second-largest cellphone market after China.

Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference on Tuesday, Hugo Barra, Xiaomi's global vice president, said the company is looking at expansion into Brazil and Mexico. Sometimes called "the Apple of China" for the excitement it generates from consumers, Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in the past year and it is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year.

While this loan is Xiaomi's first overseas, it isn't its first fundraising. The firm has raised a couple of rounds of funding by bringing in outside investors, but has declined to name them. In August 2013, Xiaomi said it raised a fourth round of funding that valued the firm at $10 billion, more than double its June 2012 valuation of $4 billion.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141029eaau00003


 Xiaomi's Challenge as It Goes Global
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 594 words, (English)
Summary: Mobile phone maker Xiaomi has ambitious plans to expand outside China, but vice president Hugo Barra tells the WSJ why selling a Chinese brand overseas can sometimes be difficult.
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas001rx

 Xiaomi's Hugo Barra on Apple's Design Language
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 304 words, (English)
Summary: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra offers his thoughts on Apple's approach to product design at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, Calif.
So I've had a few times and I'll repeat that. In our designers our engineers are inspired by great ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas0018i

 Xiaomi's International TV Plans
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 258 words, (English)
Summary: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra discusses the second generation of the company's Android-based 4K Smart TV as well as his plans for future expansion into international markets.
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas001e1



World
The 10-Point.; A personal, guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal, from Editor in Chief Gerard Baker.

By Gerard Baker 
444 words
28 October 2014
13:11
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Greetings from Laguna Beach,

Here¡¦s an update on our WSJD Live technology conference:

Today Andrew Conrad, head of the Life Sciences team at the Google X research lab, revealed that Google is designing tiny magnetic particles to patrol the human body for signs of cancer and other diseases¡Xthe latest example of the company¡¦s sweeping ambition. The project, however, still appears to be more than five years from fruition. We also heard from Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, Hugo Barra, who defended the Chinese smartphone maker¡¦s business model which focuses on markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Axelle Lemaire, France¡¦s deputy minister for digital affairs, talked about the regulation of personal data, noting that European governments are discussing how to update rules for global tech titans. ¡§If they really want to be international players, they have to adapt a little bit more,¡¨ she said. FireEye¡¦s Kevin Mandia discussed tactics used in security breaches. Coursera CEO Richard Levin and Gene Block, the chancellor of the University of California in Los Angeles, explored the impact of massive open online courses, or MOOCs. And venture investor Marc Andreessen offered his thoughts on startup valuations and what needs to be done to make the technology industry more inclusive of women.

In case you missed it, yesterday Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma shared his interest in partnering with Apple in financial payments, and Apple CEO Tim Cook said he was going to meet with Mr. Ma this week to discuss the prospect. Today we look at the potential benefits and pitfalls of such an alliance, noting a host of technical and possible regulatory hurdles. During the conference, Mr. Cook also gave us an update on the recent launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps. In a review of Apple Pay, our personal technology columnist Geoffrey Fowler writes that the service beats PayPal and Google, but needs more reach before we can eradicate wallet bloat. And don¡¦t miss tomorrow¡¦s coverage of WSJD Live, which you can follow here. I will be interviewing News Corp Chairman Rupert Murdoch and Telefonos de Mexico chief Carlos Slim on the bets they¡¦ve won and lost. We will also hear the perspectives of other entrepreneurs, executives and innovators, including Sue Desmond-Hellmann, James Cameron and Steve Ballmer.

¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas006fb




Tech
Xiaomi Defends Its Smartphone Business Model; Markets Chosen to Fit Low-Cost Approach, Hugo Barra Says

By Daisuke Wakabayashi 
678 words
28 October 2014
09:32
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. said its international expansion plans are dictated by choosing markets where its low-cost business model will work well and not by avoiding areas of potential intellectual-property-litigation risk sweeping across the smartphone industry.

Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference, Hugo Barra, Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, said it looks for markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Those markets, Mr. Barra said, are where Xiaomi¡¦s model of selling smartphones at near cost works especially well.

Xiaomi passed Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China in the second quarter, according to Canalys, a research firm. It has moved into India, Indonesia and other parts of Asia. Mr. Barra said the company is looking at a move into Brazil and Mexico next.

Xiaomi has taken the Chinese smartphone market by storm. It offers its phones at rock-bottom prices, often selling out new models online in minutes. It makes money by charging for services and accessories that accompany the phones. It also relies on a legion of loyal fans to test new features and drum up enthusiasm for the company.

But for all of Xiaomi¡¦s successes, rivals and critics have said the company would face patent infringements if it expanded to the U.S. or Europe because it doesn¡¦t have enough intellectual property to strike cross-licensing patent deals with other smartphone manufacturers.

¡§Our situation when it comes to patents is the same as everyone else,¡¨ said Mr. Barra, noting that his company files for a significant number of patents in China and strikes licensing deals abroad. Litigation risk ¡§is not a determining factor¡¨ in deciding the best markets for Xiaomi¡¦s international expansion, he said.

The issue came to prominence earlier this month when Jony Ive, Apple¡¦s senior vice president of design, was asked about Xiaomi and how some smartphone designs seem to resemble the iPhone. Without mentioning Xiaomi specifically, the usually soft-spoken Mr. Ive said it was ¡§theft¡¨ and called it ¡§lazy.¡¨

Mr. Barra said there is no such thing as a completely unique design language in the smartphone industry, noting that Apple¡¦s iPhone 6 takes a chapter from designs by Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. He says that what Apple does is no different than what Xiaomi does. ¡§This idea of building upon great ideas and putting a twist on it is what we do,¡¨ he said.

An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.

Xiaomi¡¦s smartphones run on a version of Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system. Xiaomi is sometimes called ¡§the Apple of China¡¨ for the excitement it generates among consumers. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in the past year and it is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year.

The company poses a threat to other smartphone manufacturers because of its willingness to accept low margins on hardware to make money elsewhere. For example, Xiaomi¡¦s popular Redmi phone is about a quarter of the price of the iPhone 6, which sells for more than $800 in China.

¡§We fundamentally believe that innovation is not a luxury item. Innovation is for everyone,¡¨ said Mr. Barra. ¡§We fundamentally believe that when it costs you $200 to make something, you shouldn¡¦t sell it for $600.¡¨

Mr. Barra reiterated that the company has been moving data belonging to international users to servers outside China¡Xin Singapore and North America¡Xin an effort to assuage users¡¦ concerns about privacy. He said the decision to migrate servers outside of China was driven partially by a desire to improve performance by reducing network outages and latency, but he said users like to have data close.

¡§It makes people feel better that they have data next to them,¡¨ Mr. Barra said.

¡§Chinese companies are held to a higher standard than other companies out there.¡¨

Document WSJO000020141028eaas005pl


 The Morning Download: A Lowe¡¦s Robot Aims to Cut ¡¥Friction¡¦ From Big-Box Shopping
CIO Report, 07:05, 28 October 2014, 2457 words, By Tom Loftus, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141028eaas0005l

 REUTERS SUMMIT-Chinese P2P lender looks to raise hundreds of millions as industry takes off
Reuters, 05:02, 28 October 2014, 496 words, Jake Spring, (English)
BEIJING Oct 28 (Reuters) - Chinese peer-to-peer lender Jimubox, which counts Chinese tech major Xiaomi among its backers, said on Tuesday it plans to raise several hundred million dollars in the next year as it looks to more than triple its ...
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas0038x

 The Morning Ledger: The Opposite of Share Dilution, and a Pay Boost to Boot
CFO Report, 05:27, 28 October 2014, 2636 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each ...
Document WCCFO00020141028eaas0005l



WSJ.D Technology: Samsung's Primacy Is Tested By Rise of Chinese Players

By Jonathan Cheng   
806 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

SHANGHAI -- Samsung Electronics Co.'s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong.

The 30-year-old apparel-company employee and Shanghai resident last year traded his Galaxy S3 phone, one of Samsung's most successful products, for a handset made by Beijing-based upstart Xiaomi Inc., which a few months ago displaced Samsung as China's No. 1 smartphone seller.

Xiaomi's phone offers better software and services, Mr. He says, at a fraction of a new Samsung's price. "To me, it looks like it's the same quality, but one costs 2,000 yuan ($327) and the other is 3,500 yuan," says Mr. He. "So why would I pick Samsung?"

Across China -- and around the globe -- other people are starting to feel the same way. Samsung has lost its top position for mobile-phone sales in India, and research firms that track smartphone shipments say it is in danger of being toppled in Thailand and the Philippines. Though Samsung is still the No. 1 smartphone maker globally, it has been losing market share in recent quarters.

In China, where Samsung gets 18% of its total sales, the company is parachuting in executives and outside consultants to assess the problem and figure out how to fix it, according to people with knowledge of the moves. The company is lowering prices for its existing handsets by up to 20% and preparing to roll out a new, cheaper line of smartphones for emerging markets, the people said.

The steps are part of a larger attempt to shore up the mobile-phone division, which accounts for around 60% of Samsung's operating profit.

On Thursday, the company is expected to report that operating profit for the quarter ended in September has fallen by about 60% from a year earlier, following a 20% decline in the quarter before, largely because of what the company acknowledged was "increased competition" in China.

After leading sales in the Chinese smartphone market every quarter for the past two-and-a-half years, Samsung dropped behind Xiaomi during the quarter ended June, tying for second place with Lenovo Group Ltd. and Coolpad Group Ltd., according to data tracker Canalys.

Samsung has cut the bonuses of hundreds of managers in its mobile division, according to people familiar with the matter. In an attempt to streamline operations, Samsung is combining many of its main business divisions in the U.S. under one chief, say people with direct knowledge of the move. That could foreshadow a similar consolidation of leadership at headquarters, where the company is run by three co-chief executives, said one of these people.

In an attempt to bring down its manufacturing costs, Samsung opened a $2 billion mobile-phone factory in Vietnam last year, and in July won approval from Vietnamese authorities for another factory to produce smartphone and tablet displays.

A Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on its China strategy or personnel moves.

Samsung began building up extensive distribution networks to sell its televisions and mobile phones in the 1990s, giving it a sizable head start versus Apple when it began roll out high-end smartphones. Since most Chinese consumers buy their phones at mobile-phone or consumer-electronics retail outlets rather than through carriers, Samsung's network of stores let it reach consumers from small villages to big cities like Beijing and Shanghai.

Recently, however, more Chinese consumers are buying phones online, and many of Samsung's Chinese rivals, like Xiaomi, sell primarily that way, which also lowers their overhead. Xiaomi sells its handsets at close to cost, aiming to make money on software and services sold over the phones instead -- a tactic that lets it undercut Samsung prices.

Samsung's Chinese rivals run Google Inc.'s Android operating system -- like the vast majority of Samsung's smartphones. But they have been more efficient at pre-loading sales-generating apps on their phones and promoting their own app stores.

Samsung, by its own admission, has been slow to respond. The company kept its prices high, even on lower-tier smartphones.

To unload excess inventory, Samsung has lowered some smartphone prices in China by between 10% and 20%, a tactic that could help it recapture some market share in the second half of the year, Canalys says.

The company is also preparing to release -- initially in China -- a new line of smartphones dubbed Galaxy A, a midrange phone that offers many of the features of a high-end Galaxy S device but is priced more competitively with Chinese phones, according to people familiar with the plans.

---

Fanfan Wang in Shanghai contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas0000p

 No Longer No. 1? Samsung Loses Its Edge in China
WSJ Blogs, 18:09, 27 October 2014, 305 words, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. ¡¦s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong. As the WSJ's Jonathan Cheng reports:
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaar000jj



Tech
Tech¡¦s Biggest Newsmakers Are at WSJD Live; Tim Cook, Axelle Lemaire and Jack Ma Are Among the Prominent Newsmakers Who Will Discuss Tech¡¦s Possibilities and Pitfalls

By Elizabeth Dwoskin 
373 words
27 October 2014
05:27
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Technology is playing a bigger role on the world stage than ever before.

Smartphone apps and wearable computers infiltrate our most intimate spaces. Big data takes on big problems, while hacking and privacy breaches make headlines. Blue-chip tech stalwarts have faltered while start-ups achieve billion-dollar valuations.

Prominent newsmakers will illuminate the possibilities and pitfalls at WSJD Live, a new global conference that brings together powerful executives, entrepreneurs, and financiers in technology. The three-day event begins Monday evening in Laguna Beach, Calif.

Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook will discuss the future of his iconic company in an onstage interview. Jack Ma, executive chairman of Alibaba Group, will consider his company¡¦s prospects for disrupting e-commerce heavyweights like Amazon. Venture investors Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel will address the future of financing, while former Microsoft CEO turned Los Angeles Clippers owner Steve Ballmer will predict what¡¦s next.

Special sessions will be devoted to education, e-commerce and the mobile revolution.

Google¡¦s head of Life Sciences and representatives of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will present potential solutions to global health crises. Alex Karp and Kira Radinsky, the chief executives of Palantir and SalesPredict, will examine where big data is headed, while executives from Darpa and FireEye will look at challenges in cybersecurity.

The conference will feature numerous international speakers and viewpoints.

Axelle Lemaire, France¡¦s Deputy Minister for Digital Affairs, will discuss tech-related tensions in Europe with Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith.

Hugo Barra will discuss the rise of Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, while Maelle Gavet of Ozon in Russia and Sebastian Siemiatkowski of Klarna will examine e-commerce trends around the world.

Other top executives from around the globe include Chen Lifang of Huawei, Hans Vestberg of Ericsson and Telefonos de Mexico chief Carlos Slim, who will appear on stage with News Corp Chairman Rupert Murdoch.

The conference also will feature entertainment-industry guests James Cameron, director of ¡§Avatar¡¨ and ¡§Titanic,¡¨ DreamWorks Animation SKG CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg and Universal Music CEO Lucian Grainge. 

Document WSJO000020141027eaar0030g


 China's Xiaomi to set up India customer data center to deflect privacy concerns
Reuters, 03:05, 27 October 2014, 314 words, Zeba Siddiqui, (English)
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc said on Monday it plans to set up a data center in India next year to store local user data, as the fast-growing company seeks to deflect concerns about privacy that could hamper its ...
Document WCLBA00020141027eaar002mh

 The Daily Startup: Airbnb Could Soon Be Worth $13 Billion
WSJ Blogs, 09:00, 24 October 2014, 682 words, (English)
Airbnb Inc. has met with investors about an employee stock sale,?Douglas MacMillan, Mike Spector and Evelyn M. Rusli reported for The Wall Street Journal. The company wouldn't raise any cash for itself because it is arranging for investors ...
Document WCWSJB0020141024eaao002p9

 The Morning Risk Report: SEC Tactics Cause Counsel to Change Strategy
WSJ Blogs, 02:26, 24 October 2014, 1151 words, By Samuel Rubenfeld, (English)
The Securities and Exchange Commission is increasingly steering cases to hearings in front of the agency¡¦s appointed administrative judges, The Wall Street Journal reported this week, and those judges have ruled in the SEC's favor in every ...
Document WCWSJB0020141024eaao001md

 The Morning Download: Microsoft¡¦s Hybrid Vision of the Cloud Strikes a Chord
CIO Report, 07:12, 24 October 2014, 2313 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141024eaao0002t

 Xiaomi Is Moving International Users¡¦ Data Out of China
WSJ Blogs, 05:50, 23 October 2014, 510 words, By Gillian Wong, (English)
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi said it¡¦s been moving data belonging to international users to servers outside of China, its latest effort at assuring users of privacy.
Document WCWSJB0020141023eaan001uq

 Facebook¡¦s Mark Zuckerberg Holds Q&A Session in Chinese
WSJ Blogs, 22:57, 22 October 2014, 391 words, (English)
Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg impressed a Chinese audience at Tsinghua University in Beijing on Wednesday by delivering a speech and a Q&A session entirely in Chinese.
Document WCWSJB0020141023eaan000jh

 RPT-China's Xiaomi shifts some smartphone user data out of Beijing on privacy concerns
Reuters, 23:02, 22 October 2014, 409 words, Gerry Shih, (English)
BEIJING Oct 23 (Reuters) - Fast-growing Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc said on Thursday it is migrating some data on non-Chinese customers away from its servers in Beijing due to performance and privacy considerations.
Document WCLBA00020141023eaan0018j



Corporate Watch

257 words
22 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

TATA MOTORS

Jaguar Land Rover Opens

Its First Plant in China

Tata Motors Ltd.'s Jaguar Land Rover opened its first plant in China on Tuesday as part of a manufacturing push there, even as it sees moderating growth in luxury-car sales in the country.

The luxury-car maker said the factory will have a capacity of 130,000 cars and produce three models by 2016, including one Jaguar model, along with Chinese partner Chery Automobile Co. The first model to roll off the line will be the luxury Range Rover Evoque sport-utility vehicle, its most popular in China.

The plant is in the eastern Chinese province of Jiangsu, about 100 kilometers north of Shanghai. It is part of a 10.9 billion yuan ($1.78 billion) investment to bolster the auto maker's brands in the world's largest auto market.

-- Colum Murphy

---

XIAOMI

Handset Maker Weighs

Manufacturing in India

Xiaomi Inc., China's best-selling cellphone maker, is thinking of manufacturing its handsets in India.

The company just started selling its phones in India in July. Its early sales figures have been strong enough that it is already considering manufacturing in India, said Manu Jain, the head of Xiaomi's Indian arm.

"We always thought that our manufacturing would be based out of China," Mr. Jain said. "But India is beginning to become so important for us that we started to think whether we should set up our own manufacturing."

-- Dhanya Ann Thoppil

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141021eaam0000m




Tech
China¡¦s Xiaomi May Make Cellphones in India; Xiaomi Has Hired Legal Advisers to Investigate the Regulatory Aspects of Manufacturing in India

By Dhanya Ann Thoppil 
331 words
21 October 2014
01:57
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

BANGALORE, India¡XXiaomi Inc., China¡¦s best-selling cellphone maker, is thinking of manufacturing its handsets in India.

The company¡Xwhich sells more smartphones than even Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in China¡Xjust started selling its phones in India in July. Its early sales figures have been strong enough that it is already considering manufacturing in Asia¡¦s third-largest economy, said Manu Jain, the head of Xiaomi¡¦s Indian arm.

¡§We always thought that our manufacturing would be based out of China,¡¨ Mr. Jain said. ¡§But India is beginning to become so important for us that we started to think whether we should set up our own manufacturing.¡¨

Mr. Jain said it would take at least six months before Xiaomi can decide whether making handsets in India makes sense.

Earlier this month Nokia Corp. decided to suspend manufacturing at its cellphone factory in southern India amid a continuing dispute with the country¡¦s tax authorities. The tax battle prevented Nokia from selling the plant¡Xonce one of the Finnish company¡¦s largest factories¡Xto Microsoft Corp.

Xiaomi has hired legal advisers to investigate the regulatory aspects of manufacturing in India, said Mr. Jain.

Xiaomi has been making waves in the India cellphone market using sudden online sales and high-end handsets priced close to cost. In its four months in India, Xiaomi has already sold more than 500,000 phones in India.

That is still only a small slice of the market in India where more than 200 million cellphones are sold each year, making it the world¡¦s second largest market after China¡¦s.

While only around one fifth of the new phones sold in India are smartphones, Mr. Jain expects smartphones to account for a majority of the phones sold in the South Asian nation the next three years.

Document WSJO000020141021eaal0035y


 The Morning Download: Watson Notwithstanding, IBM Is in Jeopardy
CIO Report, 07:03, 21 October 2014, 2004 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141021eaal00001

 The Morning Ledger: Post-Spinoff, a New CFO¡¦s Time to Shine
CFO Report, 05:28, 21 October 2014, 2407 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each weekday morning ...
Document WCCFO00020141021eaal0005l

 Apple¡¦s Sales in Greater China Slow
WSJ Blogs, 01:01, 21 October 2014, 392 words, By Lorraine Luk, (English)
Record demand for new larger-screen iPhones helped lift?Apple¡¦s earnings?in the latest quarter, but the technology company¡¦s revenue growth in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong, Taiwan and the mainland, slowed sharply. That's likely ...
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal0012x

 Japan Parts Makers Stick to Core Business
WSJ Blogs, 02:45, 21 October 2014, 788 words, By Eric Pfanner, (English)
Japanese consumer electronics giants may be struggling, but many of the country's parts makers are thriving. While some of them have long-standing relationships with Apple Inc. and other well-known names, they are also seeing growing demand ...
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal001jn



WSJ.D Technology: Phone Parts for China Lift Makers From Japan

By Eric Pfanner   
880 words
21 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

KYOTO, Japan -- China's smartphone boom is being fueled by an unlikely source: Japanese parts makers.

Upstart Chinese phone makers like Xiaomi Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co. are increasingly undercutting smartphone giants like Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. with high-performance, low-cost handsets.

A significant portion of those handsets' guts -- as much as 50% by value, in some cases -- is made by Japanese companies like Murata Manufacturing Co. or TDK Corp. Those parts range from displays and Wi-Fi modules to tiny, energy-storing ceramic capacitors.

"Almost all cellphone manufacturers are our customers," said Tsuneo Murata, president of Murata, which makes capacitors and other components. "The pie for the component demand is growing."

The parts sales are a rare bright spot in Japan's gloomy electronics industry, and China's smartphone market -- the world's largest and growing at 19% a year, according to Counterpoint Research -- is a big factor. Sales there are being fueled by cutthroat competition among dozens of brands, some of which offer smartphones at less than $100. Lower prices mean smaller budgets for parts, but Japanese suppliers often provide a larger share of components to Chinese brands than to Apple or Samsung, analysts say.

In the second quarter of this year, Xiaomi leapfrogged Apple and Samsung to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China, says research firm Canalys. Counterpoint says Chinese brands will capture about three-quarters of the domestic market this year, in terms of volume, up from one-third in 2010.

Chinese companies are boosting purchases of Japanese parts as they push beyond the domestic market, in order to upgrade their phones.

In some Chinese-branded phones, Japanese suppliers provide up to half of the parts by value, said Daiki Takayama, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.

Another Chinese smartphone maker, ZTE Corp., buys displays from Sharp Corp. of Japan for its high-end phones, along with camera modules from Sony Corp., said Lu Qianhao, head of ZTE's handset marketing strategy. He cited technological know-how and quality control as advantages of Japanese suppliers.

By contrast, Japanese suppliers account for about one-third of the bill of materials for the latest iPhones, and less than that for Samsung phones, said Shoji Sato, an analyst at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities.

Even phone-screen maker Japan Display Inc., whose shares sank last week after it predicted a loss this fiscal year because of delays in shipments to Apple, says it expects sales to Chinese smartphone makers to nearly triple to <yen>180 billion ($1.68 billion) during the same period.

Japan Display makes liquid-crystal displays for smartphones and tablet computers, one of the most competitive areas in the parts business, in which rivals like LG Display Co. of South Korea have been making inroads. Suppliers like Murata that dominate hard-to-copy niches are doing better.

Murata, which is based in Kyoto, built on a long tradition of ceramics-making to hone its specialization in capacitors and related components.

The company's latest capacitors aren't much bigger than a grain of sand, but they contain about 100 layers of ceramics, and Murata uses proprietary methods to make them.

"It's like making a good mille-feuille,"" Mr. Takayama said. "You can buy a very high-quality egg, the best vanilla essence or whatever, but nobody else knows how to mix it or how long to bake it."

Because Murata is the world's largest supplier of capacitors for phones, with a 35% share, it can assure manufacturers of a reliable supply, analysts say. That is important given the tight schedules of the smartphone business.

Capacitors cost pennies or less, but state-of-the-art handsets contain 700 to 800 of them -- three or four times as many as in previous generations of smartphones, Murata says.

Mr. Sato estimated Murata sells $2 to $3 worth of parts to most Chinese smartphone makers per handset. Given that Xiaomi alone has forecast shipments of 60 million phones in 2014 and 100 million next year, that is a solid source of revenue. Apple buys $9 to $10 worth of Murata parts for each iPhone, Mr. Sato estimated.

Murata's sales of parts to smartphone makers and other suppliers of communications gear rose about 90% over the past five years, to 430 billion yen in the year ended March 31, boosting overall sales by about 60%, to 847 billion yen.

The Kyoto area, also home to parts makers like Rohm Semiconductor, Nidec Corp. and Kyocera Corp., has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Chinese smartphone boom. TDK, which is based in Tokyo and makes capacitors and other parts, says its sales to Chinese smartphone makers rose 50% in the April-June quarter.

The push to automate smartphone plants in China is providing a further boost to Japanese suppliers. Fanuc Corp., a maker of industrial robots that is based in the shadow of Mount Fuji, in September upgraded its forecast for sales and earnings in the financial year ending in March by 29% and 26%, respectively.

---

Juro Osawa in Hong Kong and Chieko Tsuneoka in Tokyo contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141021eaal00011


 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Gain, but IBM Weighs on Dow
MoneyBeat, 20 October 2014, 930 words, WSJ Staff, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Brendan McDermid</dd> ...
Document BC08551020141021eaak00001

 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Gain, but IBM Weighs on Dow
WSJ Blogs, 17:14, 20 October 2014, 898 words, By WSJ Staff, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 up 0.9% at 1904.02. DJIA up 0.1% at 16399.67. Nasdaq Comp up 1.35% at 4316.07. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.180%. Nymex crude oil down 0.05% at $82.71. Gold up 0.5% at ...
Document WCWSJB0020141020eaak008c1

 Xiaomi Flash Sales Prove Popular in India
WSJ Blogs, 05:03, 17 October 2014, 374 words, By R. Jai Krishna, (English)
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, which has overtaken Apple and Samsung in China, is working its way into the Indian market using sudden online sales and high-end handsets priced at close to cost.
Document WCWSJB0020141017eaah002e5



Tech
Lenovo to Establish New Mobile Phone Company in China; Smartphone Company With Different Brand Name Is Part of Efforts to Fend Off Competition in China

By Juro Osawa 
317 words
15 October 2014
05:48
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Personal-computer and smartphone maker Lenovo Group Ltd. said it would create a new company in China next year that focuses on selling mobile phones online.

The new smartphone company, which will have a different brand name, is part of Lenovo¡¦s efforts to fend off fierce competition in China from Xiaomi Inc., a local smartphone startup that sells its handsets online while cultivating its fan base through its own software, services and entertainment offerings. Xiaomi is also known for being marketing savvy, engaging with consumers through online forums and social networks.

Lenovo said in a statement Wednesday that it will continue to sell Lenovo-branded phones in China through local carriers and retailers.

The new smartphone company, which will start its operation April 1, 2015, won't only sell devices online but will also offer applications and focus on consumer engagement, Lenovo said.

Lenovo, which last year overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. as the world¡¦s largest PC maker, has been quickly expanding its smartphone business for the past year. In the second quarter, Lenovo was the world¡¦s fourth-largest smartphone maker by shipments behind Samsung, Apple and Huawei Technologies Co., according to IDC.

Lenovo and Xiaomi are two of the biggest smartphone makers in China, both selling more phones in the market than Samsung Electronics Co. or Apple Inc.

In recent quarters, Lenovo and Xiaomi have been competing intensely against each other for the number-one position by shipments.

Lenovo¡¦s plans to set up a new mobile phone business comes as the company is in the process of completing a $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility in the U.S.

But Lenovo said that the new smartphone company will be a China-focused company.

Document WSJO000020141015eaaf003pf




Ex-Google Executive Is Hired By Xiaomi

By R. Jai Krishna and Newley Purnell   
312 words
15 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
NPC
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Xiaomi Inc., the Chinese smartphone maker that has overtaken Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in the world's biggest smartphone market, has hired another former Google Inc. executive, this time to lead its products team in India.

Jai Mani, who joins as lead product manager, was strategy and analytics associate for Google Play and co-founded a startup, according to his LinkedIn profile, before relocating from San Francisco.

"You can think of it as the beginning of our R&D center development in India," Hugo Barra, vice president for global operations at Xiaomi, said.

"The first person we hired is someone who's going to be the glue between our users in India, product feedback that we receive, and the engineering team we have in Beijing as well as the engineering team that we are going to be building fairly soon in India," he said.

Mr. Barra, who also joined Xiaomi from Google, said he and Mr. Mani "worked very closely at Google."

The appointment comes as Xiaomi is expanding outside of China and ramping up its presence in India and Southeast Asia. The Chinese company wants to build products or applications that run on its cellphones aimed at a global audience from India, Mr. Barra told The Wall Street Journal earlier this year. Xiaomi, which means "little rice" in Chinese, has intensified competition in a smartphone market dominated by Apple and Samsung. Xiaomi has created buzz in China and India by selling high-end phones online directly to consumers for prices that are close to cost. The company offers services such as mobile applications and movies via its software and makes money by selling an array of accessories. Mr. Mani worked with Google from 2009 until 2013.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141015eaaf0002u


 Tmall Programmer Triples Smartisan Reservations
WSJ Blogs, 01:52, 13 October 2014, 447 words, (English)
The maker of the 4G version of the Smartisan T1 ¡V the smartphone that hopes to contend with Apple and Xiaomi for the hearts and the wallets of Chinese consumers?¡V began taking reservations at the beginning of this month. But those tracking ...
Document WCWSJB0020141013eaad0015p

 Xiaomi signs former Google exec as India lead products manager
Reuters, 03:32, 13 October 2014, 300 words, (English)
Oct 13 (Reuters) - Chinese smartphone company Xiaomi has named a new lead products manager for its India unit as the company ramps up its team in the world's third biggest smartphone market.
Document WCLBA00020141013eaad002ml

 Xiaomi signs former Google executive as India lead products manager
Reuters, 03:38, 13 October 2014, 217 words, Nivedita Bhattacharjee, (English)
Three models of China's Xiaomi Mi phones are pictured during their launch in New Delhi July 15, 2014.
(Reuters) - Chinese smartphone company Xiaomi has named a new lead products manager for its India unit as the company ramps up its team in ...
Document WCLBA00020141013eaad002jq



WSJ.D Technology: HTC Takes New Look at Itself With Selfie Camera

By Eva Dou   
637 words
9 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

TAIPEI -- While working on a product road map for smartphone maker HTC Corp. earlier this year, company Vice President Jerry Hsiao did some research.

"British women spend a month of their lives taking selfies," read an article from the British tabloid the Daily Mail that Mr. Hsiao selected for a PowerPoint slideshow highlighting his findings.

While Mr. Hsiao had included the article jokingly in a presentation this week about new products from the Taiwanese company, the observation holds true that people today are often endlessly fascinated with their own images refracted through high-tech gadgets. And long-suffering HTC is hoping that tendency will help it engineer a turnaround.

On Wednesday in New York, HTC, once the world's top smartphone maker by volume in 2011, launched a waterproof action camera and software for taking selfie photos, a departure from its usual emphasis on mobile-phone hardware. HTC also unveiled a selfie-focused smartphone to bolster the company's midprice Desire line.

It is a strategic change that the company hopes will help it reverse three years of falling sales. Last year, HTC fell out of the world's top 10 smartphone brands by shipments amid branding weakness and strong competition from Samsung Electronics Co. of South Korea in the high-end market and Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi in the low-cost segment. This month, the company said its third-quarter revenue fell 11% to 41.86 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$1.37 billion), compared with NT$47 billion a year earlier, despite returning to a net profit largely on cost cuts.

Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said in an interview that the company hopes its new products will help it return to sales growth. HTC's sales have fallen year-over-year for the past 12 quarters.

HTC's $199 Re Camera is a slim tube-shaped camera that can be clipped to a backpack, mounted on a bicycle or taken underwater. It is the company's first major venture outside smartphones since its launch of a tablet computer three years ago, and will be sold on Amazon.com and through other retailers. The camera weighs about 2.5 ounces.

Chairwoman Cher Wang has blamed marketing weakness for HTC's decline. Its third marketing chief in two years left HTC this fall, after an advertising campaign with actor Robert Downey Jr. failed to stem the company's sales slide.

In an interview, Ms. Wang said HTC is looking to invest its marketing dollars more effectively. "The most important thing is to make the end-user love you," she said.

The smartphone maker released its Zoe slideshow app free for devices powered by Google Inc.'s Android software and Apple Inc.'s iOS. Its new selfie app, HTC Eye, offers voice-activated photo-taking and a video-chat feature that keeps a subject's face centered in the screen even if the person is walking around. The company plans to eventually make the selfie app available free of charge for non-HTC users.

HTC plans to offer the new smartphone, called Desire Eye, through AT&T Inc. later this month. Unsubsidized, the smartphone would cost between US$450 and US$500, Mr. Chang said. It comes with 13-megapixel cameras on both the front and rear and has a 5.2-inch screen.

A number of competitors await HTC in the selfie-smartphone niche. Samsung, Sony Corp. of Japan and others have also rolled out smartphones with features intended to make it easier to take and edit selfie photos.

With the Re camera, HTC will have to vie against other action-camera makers, such as GoPro Inc. of San Mateo, Calif.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141009eaa90001r


 UPDATE 2-Samsung Elec heads for annual profit fall after weak Q3 guidance
Reuters, 21:42, 6 October 2014, 630 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 7 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is heading for its first annual earnings drop since 2011 after it revealed its July-September profit would be the lowest in more than three years and said short-term prospects for ...
Document WCLBA00020141007eaa7000xg

 UPDATE 1-Samsung to invest $14.7 bln in new S.Korea chip facility
Reuters, 21:02, 5 October 2014, 310 words, Sun Oct, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd plans to invest $14.7 billion to construct a new chip production plant in South Korea, a major bet on its semiconductor business amid a smartphone earnings slump.
Document WCLBA00020141006eaa6000ul



Tech
HTC Posts Second Straight Quarterly Profit; Sales Continue to Slide as Smartphone Maker Loses Market Share to Apple and Low-Cost Chinese Competitors

By Eva Dou and Jenny W. Hsu 
374 words
2 October 2014
23:10
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. said Friday it was profitable for a second consecutive quarter, but the company continued a three-year revenue decline as competition from low-priced Chinese phone makers remains fierce.

The Taiwanese smartphone maker has spent the past year cutting costs and diversifying from its high-end flagship line, after falling into the red last year for the first time since its public listing in 2002.

While the cost cuts have returned HTC to a narrow profit, it has yet to find a way to reverse the slide in sales. HTC has lost share to market leaders like Apple Inc. and to rapidly growing low-cost Chinese rivals like Xiaomi.

The company has rolled out more midtier phones this year, but those new devices have yet to offset the decline in sales of its flagship HTC One line.

HTC executives have said they plan to expand into other product categories this year to try to revive the business. The company sent invitations for a launch event on Oct. 8, with a teaser video that suggests it will release an action camera that can be used while playing sports or swimming.

The company is also joining with Google Inc. to release a Nexus tablet, which will be HTC¡¦s first tablet in three years, according to people familiar with the matter. These new devices could help offset declining sales in HTC¡¦s smartphone business, analysts say.

HTC said its preliminary third-quarter earnings were 640 million New Taiwan dollars (US$21 million), above analyst expectations of NT$556.8 million, according to Thomson One Analytics. That compares with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion in the year-earlier quarter.

In the quarter ended Sept. 30, HTC posted NT$41.86 billion in revenue, down from NT$47 billion in the year-earlier quarter.

In the fourth quarter, HTC will face strong competition from Apple, which announced on Sept. 22 it sold a record 10 million of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones in their first weekend of sales.

Document WSJO000020141003eaa3001ur


 Samsung Elec profit seen bottoming in Q3 ahead of slow recovery
Reuters, 16:00, 1 October 2014, 653 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's profit is seen weakening further in the third-quarter, underscoring the downturn in its market-leading smartphone business and piling pressure on the firm to deliver a revamped product ...
Document WCLBA00020141001eaa1006c2



New iPhones Cleared For Chinese Market

By Lorraine Luk   
648 words
1 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

HONG KONG -- Apple Inc.'s new iPhone 6 will go on sale in China on Oct. 17 after winning final approval from regulators who scrutinized the device's security features amid rising concerns in the country about privacy.

The move brings the iPhone 6 and the big-screen iPhone 6 Plus to China roughly one month after they went on sale in the U.S. and other countries. Apple is counting on the devices to help it maintain its edge in China, the world's largest smartphone market but an increasingly tough battleground for both foreign and domestic companies.

China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology issued the network-access licenses to Apple's new iPhones after the Cupertino, Calif., company addressed the privacy risks found in a government agency's safety test, the regulator said Tuesday.

The ministry's concerns included software that it feared could be used to allow third parties to get access to user data.

Asked about the ministry's concerns, an Apple spokeswoman pointed to the company's online statements on user privacy. She declined to answer additional questions.

Apple's iPhones and other mobile gadgets are under increased scrutiny from governments amid concerns over privacy. The Wall Street Journal reported last year that U.S. and foreign law-enforcement agencies used software to turn Internet-connected devices, such as laptops and smartphones, into digital eavesdropping posts. Such programs often are created and installed without the device manufacturer's knowledge.

Still, China's approval gives Apple access to a country of more than 1.2 billion mobile users. Apple said Tuesday that the phones would be available on China's three large state-owned mobile carriers. It said it would allow preorders to begin Oct. 10.

The ministry conducted the safety test after recent media reports raised privacy concerns over iPhones. In July, state-run China Central Television said the iPhone poses a national security concern because of a feature that determines places a user visits most frequently. Apple said that users must switch on that feature themselves and the company doesn't keep track of the locations.

Specifically, Chinese authorities said they scrutinized what they called back-end programs that could allow covert data collection. It said the risks include third parties getting access to the phone through the Internet via a desktop or laptop computer the phone might be connected to.

In response, Apple said that the new version of the phone's mobile operating software allowed users to clear the list of computers authorized to connect to the phone, according to the ministry. It added that Apple said the company can't get access to users' information without their consent.

Apple also told the regulator that it "has stepped up the protection for users' privacy and safety," according to the ministry. The U.S. company also reiterated that it has never worked with any government agency from any country to create a "backdoor" in any of its products or services and it never will, according to MIIT.

The delay in China highlighted the challenge Apple faces in expanding its presence in a major growth market. Apple ranked No. 6 in China's smartphone market in the second quarter, with a market share of 6.5%, according to research firm IDC.

Apple has faced increasing competition from rival Samsung Electronics Co. and Chinese manufacturers including Xiaomi Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co., which offer phones with advanced hardware at budget prices.

In the second quarter, Apple ranked second after Samsung in the global smartphone market.

Apple's market share fell to 11.7% from 13% a year earlier, while Samsung's dropped to 24.9% from 32.2%. No. 3 Huawei's market share rose to 6.7% from 5.1%, according to IDC.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140930eaa100017


 RPT-Phoning 'home': what your mobile may be giving away
Reuters, 16:00, 28 September 2014, 1229 words, Jeremy Wagstaff, (English)
SINGAPORE, Sept 28 (Reuters) - When popular Chinese handset maker Xiaomi Inc admitted that its devices were sending users' personal information back to a server in China, it prompted howls of protest and an investigation by Taiwan's ...
Document WCLBA00020140928ea9s003bl

 Xiaomi raises Indian smartphone sales goals
Reuters, 07:09, 26 September 2014, 269 words, Soham Chatterjee, (English)
BANGALORE (Reuters) - Chinese firm Xiaomi is stocking up on its smartphones in India in readiness for the festive season as it looks to gain ground in the world's third largest smartphone market, a top executive said on Friday.
Document WCLBA00020140926ea9q003ph



Asia
What's News¡X

357 words
24 September 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Business & Finance

India's Supreme Court canceled hundreds of coal-mining licenses, saying they were granted illegally, adding uncertainty beyond the struggling coal industry to the heart of the nation's economy.

Indian financial investigators made an arrest in connection with an allegedly corruption-tainted deal to buy helicopters from Finmeccanica's AgustaWestland unit.

Chinese investors are pouring millions of dollars into Israel-focused, technology-investment funds, as well as launching their own funds and investing directly in Israeli startups.

General Motors is counting on new Chevrolet and Buick models to reverse market-lagging Chinese passenger car sales.

Toyota lowered the full-year sales outlook at a key Chinese auto joint venture.

Two Chinese steel companies, Sinosteel and Anhui Wanjiang Logistics, said they were having trouble paying back debt.

Taiwan is debating whether to prohibit government officials from using phones made by Xiaomi amid concerns over protection of users' privacy by Chinese tech firms.

BlackBerry unveiled the Passport, a larger square-screen device the company is counting on to revive its fortunes against Apple and Samsung, who now dominate the smartphone market.

Along with new iPhones and a promised smartwatch, Apple is also selling privacy these days.

Australia's central bank is speaking with regulators about possible curbs on mortgage lending to prevent overheating in the market.

Taiwan's inflation is starting to moderate, the central bank said, after data showed the consumer-price index rose to its highest level in 18 months in August.

World-Wide

China and Japan resumed high-level talks on maritime issues, a move that could ease a territorial dispute and help pave the way for the nations' leaders to meet for the first time in years.

A self-proclaimed ally of the Islamic State group released a video purportedly showing the beheading of a Frenchman abducted in Algeria.

Anas Urbaningrum, a former leader of Indonesian President Yudhoyono's political party, was convicted of graft.

Two top public-health agencies warned that the number of cases of Ebola in West Africa could grow exponentially unless measures to tame the outbreak are implemented on a large scale soon. 

Document WSJO000020140924ea9p005mv


 UPDATE 1-Taiwan company withdraws notice to use Chinese vessels over security concerns
Reuters, 03:33, 25 September 2014, 580 words, J.R. Wu, (English)
TAIPEI, Sept 25 (Reuters) - A Taiwanese company has withdrawn notice to use Chinese vessels on a renewable energy project off the island, the port authority said on Thursday, after opposition lawmakers cited security concerns about the ...
Document WCLBA00020140925ea9p002bm



Corporate News: Taiwan Considers Limits On Use of Xiaomi Phones

By Jenny W. Hsu   
424 words
25 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI -- Taiwan is debating whether to prohibit government officials from using phones produced by Xiaomi Inc., China's biggest smartphone maker, amid burgeoning concern over the protection of users' privacy by Chinese tech firms.

"Recent reports and speculations over the security of Xiaomi phones has prompted us to look into the matter," government spokesman Sun Lih-chyun said Wednesday. The government will make a decision in three months.

Xiaomi declined to comment directly on Taiwan's possible ban but reiterated its earlier statement that the new upgraded software system is sufficient to block any transferring or collection of personal information without prior authorization from users.

The possible ban is also a reflection of Taiwan's wariness of China, despite the strengthening of bilateral trade links. According to Taiwan's National Security Bureau, the island encountered more than 30,000 hacking attempts during the first half of this year, with a portion suspected to be from Internet protocol addresses in China.

To beef up Taiwan's cyberdefense, Mr. Sun said non-Taiwanese instant-messaging applications, including LINE, WhatsApp, Facebook and WeChat, aren't allowed to be installed on government issued electronic devices. Government workers are also asked not to discuss work-related matters over those platforms, he added. Instead, government staff have been asked to communicate via Juiker, a homegrown instant-messaging application created by the government-funded Industrial Technology Research Institute.

Mr. Sun said because servers of these foreign chat platforms are located in other countries, "in cases of cybersecurity breach or data theft, it will be difficult for our police to investigate."

Tencent Holdings Ltd., the Chinese maker of WeChat, couldn't be reached for comment.

Competitive pricing by Chinese telecom and mobile-phone companies has bolstered their global market access, but they are also facing harsher scrutiny from foreign governments amid escalating concerns over cyberattacks and digital espionage allegedly stemming from China.

In 2012, the U.S. government flagged Chinese telecommunication giants Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE as potential national security threats, saying in a report that equipment produced by these two firms could be use to compromise American cybersecurity. Vehement accusations of trespassing each other's cyberspace remain a strain on Sino-U.S. ties. In August, Singapore said it would launch a probe into Xiaomi on possible data theft after complaints about the Chinese company's alleged unauthorized transmission of users' personal information to a server in Beijing.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140924ea9p00017




Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance

261 words
25 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
2
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

India's Supreme Court canceled hundreds of coal-mining licenses, saying they were granted illegally, adding uncertainty beyond the struggling coal industry to the heart of the nation's economy.

---

Indian financial investigators made an arrest in connection with an allegedly corruption-tainted deal to buy helicopters from Finmeccanica's AgustaWestland unit.

---

Chinese investors are pouring millions of dollars into Israel-focused, technology-investment funds, as well as launching their own funds and investing directly in Israeli startups.

---

General Motors is counting on new Chevrolet and Buick models to reverse market-lagging Chinese passenger car sales.

---

Toyota lowered the full-year sales outlook at a key Chinese auto joint venture.

---

Two Chinese steel companies, Sinosteel and Anhui Wanjiang Logistics, said they were having trouble paying back debt.

---

Taiwan is debating whether to prohibit government officials from using phones made by Xiaomi amid concerns over protection of users' privacy by Chinese tech firms.

---

BlackBerry unveiled the Passport, a larger square-screen device the company is counting on to revive its fortunes against Apple and Samsung, who now dominate the smartphone market.

---

Along with new iPhones and a promised smartwatch, Apple is also selling privacy these days.

---

Australia's central bank is speaking with regulators about possible curbs on mortgage lending to prevent overheating in the market.

---

Taiwan's inflation is starting to moderate, the central bank said, after data showed the consumer-price index rose to its highest level in 18 months in August.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

1102

Document AWSJ000020140924ea9p0000z


 UPDATE 1-Taiwan government investigates Xiaomi on potential cyber security concerns
Reuters, 06:31, 24 September 2014, 724 words, Michael Gold, (English)
TAIPEI, Sept 24 (Reuters) - The Taiwanese government is investigating whether Xiaomi Inc, China's leading smartphone company by domestic shipments, is a cyber security threat and will make a decision within three months.
Document WCLBA00020140924ea9o003k0



Business
Corporate Watch: News Digest

821 words
23 September 2014
19:54
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Joint Venture to Cut

700 Jobs in Australia

Several of Australia's largest coal companies are intensifying job cutbacks, despite signs of an upturn for the commodity.

BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi Corp.'s Australian joint venture¡Xthe world's biggest exporter of coal to make steel¡Xsaid on Tuesday it would cut jobs, citing a sustained weakness in prices.

The companies said they would shed about 700 jobs from their Australian coal-mining operations in central Queensland as they deepen a cost-cutting drive that has been going on for more than 18 months. The BHP-Mitsubishi alliance employs about 7,000 people in Queensland's Bowen Basin, which includes two operations it operates with Mitsui & Co.

New Hope Corp., one of Australia's largest coal miners, also is shedding jobs. Chief Executive Shane Stephan said on Tuesday that the company had cut 45 jobs in recent months.

Rhiannon Hoyle

Crest Whitestrips Maker Wins Infringement Suit

Procter & Gamble Co. won a victory in its fight to protect its Crest Whitestrips from generic competition, potentially driving one of its few remaining rivals out of the market.

The consumer-products giant said Tuesday that a federal court in Ohio found the tooth whitening strips produced by Clio USA, a small manufacturer that has supplied generic strips to stores including CVS Health Corp. and Family Dollar Stores Inc., infringed on three of P&G's patents.

Tim Barrett, an analyst with Euromonitor International, said the court's decision will likely force Clio to leave the market that Crest has vigorously defended.

A representative from Clio didn't respond to requests for comment.

Chelsey Dulaney

Regulators Approve Operations in China

NetJets Inc. said it has become the first Western private-jet operator to secure permission from regulators in China to operate flights within that country, though airspace restrictions will limit the services it can offer.

The Columbus, Ohio, unit of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said Tuesday that it initially will offer charter flights in China with two planes. It hopes to win approval by early next year to also take on the management of jets owned by companies and wealthy individuals in the country.

Private-jet use in China is growing rapidly, with aircraft manufacturers and operators targeting the region's emerging superrich and corporate elites.

However, NetJets Chief Executive Jordan Hansell said on a call with reporters that it can still take one to two days to secure permission from regulators for flight plans and other clearances, even though Chinese regulators have been opening more military airspace to commercial flying. The complications reduce the flexibility and appeal of private jets.

Doug Cameron

Xbox One Release Pushed Back to Sept. 29 in China

The Xbox One has a China release date. Again.

Microsoft Corp. said that its new game console will go on sale in the world's No. 2 economy on Sept. 29. The disclosure comes after the Redmond, Wash., technology giant over the weekend pulled the plug on its initial Sept. 23 launch date.

"After receiving government approval for the first wave of games, we will launch with the first 10 games now and continue our work to bring more blockbuster games and a broad offering of entertainment and app experiences to the platform in the weeks and months to come," said Enwei Xie, general manager of Xbox China.

Asked why the console was delayed, a Microsoft spokeswoman said, "we wanted to launch with the first approved game titles right away." She didn't immediately respond to questions about whether the games were delayed.

The Xbox One would become the first game console to be legally sold in China in more than a decade.

Pricing could be a challenge. Microsoft said it plans to sell the Xbox One with the Kinect motion detection system for 4,299 yuan ($700), roughly 40% more than in the U.S.

Carlos Tejada

IPO Puts CEO Atop List

Alibaba's blockbuster $25 billion stock offering has made Jack Ma the wealthiest man in China, according to a new survey, as investor enthusiasm for Chinese technology names enriches a new generation of Internet moguls.

Mr. Ma, founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and his family have a net worth of about $25 billion following last week's initial public offering, according to the Hurun Rich List, an annual survey compiled by the Shanghai-based research group Hurun Report and released on Tuesday. That puts him at the top of a list long dominated by property magnates. An Alibaba spokeswoman declined to comment.

Half of this year's top 10 were technology executives, including the top executives at Internet conglomerate Tencent Holdings Ltd., search engine provider Baidu Inc., e-commerce website JD.com Inc. and smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Only two major property investors made the list amid a swooning Chinese real-estate market.

Eva Dou

Document WSJO000020140924ea9n000dx




China's Richest: Jack Ma

By Eva Dou   
636 words
24 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
17
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Alibaba's blockbuster $25 billion stock offering has made Jack Ma the wealthiest man in China, according to a new survey, as investor enthusiasm for Chinese technology names enriches a new generation of Internet moguls.

Mr. Ma, founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and his family have a net worth of about $25 billion following last week's initial public offering, according to the Hurun Rich List, an annual survey compiled by the Shanghai-based research group Hurun Report and released on Tuesday. That puts him at the top of a list long dominated by property magnates. An Alibaba spokeswoman declined to comment.

Half of this year's top 10 were technology executives, including the top executives at Internet conglomerate Tencent Holdings Ltd., search engine provider Baidu Inc., e-commerce website JD.com Inc. and smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Only two major property investors made the list amid a swooning Chinese real-estate market.

The shift reflects a flood of dollars into China's rapidly growing Internet sector, as investors bet on firms such as Alibaba growing at a fast clip at home and becoming more globally competitive. China has seen a record 15 Internet IPOs so far this year, according to data provider Dealogic, raising $29.2 billion, including Alibaba's $25 billion. By contrast, the four Chinese Internet IPOs over the same period last year raised a combined $91 million.

"This IT boom has really taken off in the last year, when Chinese players seem to be bringing bigger ideas to market," said Hurun founder Rupert Hoogewerf.

Rui Ma, a Greater China partner with venture-capital investor 500 Startups, said the flood of new money into China's IT sector this year has come both from foreign investors excited about the rapid growth of the likes of Alibaba and from domestic investors looking for a place to put their money as yields fall in real estate and manufacturing.

"Those in traditional industries have really seen a hit to their wealth from the general slowdown," she said, adding that she has seen startup valuations in Beijing pass those of Silicon Valley this year. "A lot of wealthy Chinese are turning to tech for investing."

In a recent interview, Joseph Chen, chairman and chief executive of Chinese social-media company Renren Inc., called the startup market in China "very fluffy," though he said the subsequent IPOs by many of those new companies often justified the values.

Shares of Tencent and Baidu are both up more than 40% over the past 12 months. Tencent founder Pony Ma was No. 5 on the list with wealth of $18.1 billion, while Baidu founder Robin Li was No. 6 with $17.5 billion. They companies didn't respond to requests for comment.

In May, the IPO of online retailer JD.com Inc. jumped 20% when it began trading, giving the company a market value of $28 billion. JD.com founder Richard Liu is China's ninth richest person with $8.8 billion, Hurun said. "International investors appreciate the transformational effects that e-commerce is having in China," JD.com spokesman Josh Gartner said.

The Hurun list valued Mr. Ma's wealth based on both his minority stake in Alibaba and his stake in the company's electronic-payment affiliate Alipay.

Mr. Ma edged out No. 2 Wang Jianlin, chairman of real-estate developer and entertainment company Dalian Wanda Group Corp. Wanda didn't respond to a request for comment.

---

Esther Fung in Shanghai and Lilian Lin and Carlos Tejada in Beijing contributed to this article.

(See related articles: "Alibaba's Strategy Buoys Some Startups" and "Heard on the Street: An Expensive Search for India's Alibaba" -- WSJA Sept. 24, 2014)

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140923ea9o00014




Tech
Alibaba's Jack Ma Is China's Richest Person, Survey Shows; Alibaba Founder Jack Ma and His Family Are Worth About $25 Billion, According to Hurun Report

By Eva Dou 
724 words
23 September 2014
04:03
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Alibaba's blockbuster $25 billion stock offering has made Jack Ma the wealthiest man in China, according to a new survey, as investor enthusiasm for Chinese technology names enriches a new generation of Internet moguls.

Mr. Ma, founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and his family have a net worth of about $25 billion following last week's initial public offering, according to the Hurun Rich List, an annual survey compiled by the Shanghai-based research group Hurun Report released on Tuesday. That puts him at the top of a list long dominated by property magnates. An Alibaba spokeswoman declined to comment.

He isn't alone. Half of this year's top 10 were technology executives, including the top executives at Internet conglomerate Tencent Holdings Ltd., search engine provider Baidu Inc., e-commerce website JD.com Inc. and smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Meanwhile, only two major property investors made the list amid a swooning Chinese real-estate market.

The shift reflects a flood of dollars into China's rapidly growing Internet sector, as investors bet on firms such as Alibaba growing at a fast clip at home and becoming more globally competitive. China has seen a record 15 Internet IPOs so far this year, according to data provider Dealogic, raising $29.2 billion, including Alibaba's $25 billion. By contrast, the four Chinese Internet IPOs over the same period last year raised a combined $91 million.

"This IT boom has really taken off in the last year, when Chinese players seem to be bringing bigger ideas to market," said Hurun founder Rupert Hoogewerf.

Rui Ma, greater China venture partner with venture-capital investor 500 Startups, said the flood of new money into China's IT sector this year has come both from foreign investors excited about the rapid growth of the likes of Alibaba and from domestic investors looking for a place to put their money as yields fall in real estate and manufacturing.

"Those in traditional industries have really seen a hit to their wealth from the general slowdown," she said, adding that she has seen startup valuations in Beijing pass those of Silicon Valley this year. "A lot of wealthy Chinese are turning to tech for investing."

In a recent interview, Joseph Chen, chairman and chief executive of Chinese social-media company Renren Inc., called the startup market in China "very fluffy," though he said the subsequent IPOs by many of those new companies often justified the values.

Shares of Tencent and Baidu are both up more than 40% over the past 12 months. Tencent founder Pony Ma was No. 5 on the list with wealth of $18.1 billion, while Baidu founder Robin Li was No. 6 with a wealth of $17.5 billion. The companies didn't respond to requests for comment.

In May, the IPO of online retailer JD.com jumped 20% when it began trading, giving the company a market value of $28 billion. JD.com founder Richard Liu is China's ninth richest person with wealth of $8.8 billion, Hurun said. "International investors appreciate the transformational effects that e-commerce is having in China," JD.com spokesman Josh Gartner said.

Closely held Xiaomi, which makes high-spec smartphones for budget prices, was valued at $10 billion last year based on its fundraising efforts. Xiaomi founder Lei Jun was No. 10 with wealth of $7.5 billion, Hurun said. Xiaomi declined to comment.

The Hurun list valued Mr. Ma's wealth including both his minority stake in Alibaba and his stake in the company's electronic-payment affiliate Alipay.

He edged out No. 2 Wang Jianlin, chairman of real-estate developer and entertainment company Dalian Wanda Group Corp. Wanda didn't respond to a request for comment.

The last time an Internet entrepreneur rose to the top of Hurun's rich list was in 2003, with Netease founder Ding Lei, Mr. Hoogewerf said. Since then, the crown of China's richest man has passed to executives in other sectors such as real estate, beverages and heavy manufacturing.

Esther Fung in Shanghai and Lilian Lin and Carlos Tejada in Beijing contributed to this article.

Document WSJO000020140923ea9n0020a


 Alibaba's Jack Ma rises to top of China rich list as tech tycoons gain
Reuters, 02:49, 23 September 2014, 460 words, Gerry Shih, (English)
BEIJING (Reuters) - Jack Ma, executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (BABA.N), has become China's richest man with a fortune estimated at $25 billion, underscoring the ascension of tech tycoons over real estate peers in the world's ...
Document WCLBA00020140923ea9n00209



WSJ.D Technology: How Startups View Alibaba as an Active Investor

By Lizette Chapman   
776 words
23 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd. is more than an enormous e-commerce conglomerate that just held history's biggest IPO. It's also an increasingly active investor in startups with the ability to influence its portfolio companies' business models and strategies, entrepreneurs say.

The company has backed 12 startups, raising a combined total of more than $1 billion so far this year, up from three startups that raised a combined $22 million in 2009, according to industry tracker DowJones VentureSource.

Among its total of 27 technology investments since the beginning of 2009, Alibaba this year invested $215 million in the messaging platform TangoMe Inc. and took part in a $250 million financing round for ride-sharing service Lyft Inc. The financing rounds were among the largest Alibaba has joined as an investor.

Entrepreneurs whose companies are backed by Alibaba say the company consistently counsels them to forgo short-term revenue goals for longer-term strategies.

Peel Technologies Inc., a Mountain View, Calif.-based company that enables smartphones to be used as remote controls, raised an undisclosed amount from Alibaba in June. Around that time it was considering hiring a vice president of monetization to boost advertising revenue, according to Peel Chief Executive Thiru Arunachalam. He held off in part because Hongping Zhang, Alibaba Capital Partners managing director and a Peel board member, encouraged him to reconsider.

"He said, 'Don't worry about the revenue, focus on the user base,'" Mr. Arunachalam said, referring to Mr. Zhang. "He said, 'Let's get to one billion users; then we'll be in a better position'" to monetize. "They are a very different type of investor," Mr. Arunachalam added. "They are in it for the long haul."

That strategy has worked well for Alibaba. The Chinese e-commerce giant steadily expanded its user base during the past decade by diversifying from shopping to include payment, messaging, cloud computing and entertainment services.

Transactions on its e-commerce sites totaled $248 billion last year, or more than those for eBay and Amazon combined. It has also sought to back startups in a wide variety of sectors with future strategic value for Alibaba.

Last year, Alibaba led a $50 million financing round in Quixey Inc., another Mountain View-based company that is building deep-linking technology to improve mobile search. The technology would enable consumers to search for information on their mobile devices the way they do on desktops, without having to download or launch individual apps to get the specific data. Consumers could also shop and take other actions within various Alibaba apps without ever downloading them from app stores.

Among Quixey's challenges around the time of the financing was balancing the need for immediate revenue with more strategic thinking. "Certain investors tried to pressure us into short-term monetization like 'the app of the day,'" said Quixey Chief Executive Tomer Kagan. "It seems like a short-term win but it can actually derail the focus, and so it's good to have a board meeting when Alibaba reminds us" of that, he said. "They support the idea of not going for the short-term wins when the long-term wins can be earth-shattering."

Kabam Inc. Chief Operating Officer Kent Wakeford said that working with Alibaba executives has been "eye opening." The free-to-play mobile-game startup raised $120 million from Alibaba in July in a deal that included publishing and distributing games. Like Tencent Holdings Ltd., Baidu Inc. and others that are building game portfolios, Alibaba sees mobile games as a way to continue to build its user base and keep it engaged.

Conversations with Alibaba also included the possibility of leveraging Kabam's intellectual-property deals with Hollywood franchises like "The Hunger Games" and "Lord of the Rings."

"They are seeking to provide 360-degree touch points with consumers," said Mr. Wakeford, adding that this could include playing movie trailers, as well as options to purchase movie tickets and buy related merchandise while a user is playing a game.

Having a patient, deep-pocketed strategic investor has its benefits, but it can also make partnering with Alibaba competitors more difficult. Peel's Mr. Arunachalam said his team is sensitive to what he calls a "perception challenge" when meeting with potential Chinese partners like Baidu, Tencent and electronics company Xiaomi Inc.

While he doesn't omit the fact that Peel is backed by Alibaba, his team doesn't emphasize it either. "Some people use the 'Ali company' as a business card," he said. "We don't."

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140923ea9n00012




Managing -- Boss Talk Asia: Renren Seeks China's Next Innovation --- Social Media Firm's CEO, Joseph Chen, Discusses the Entrepreneurial Spirit in the Chinese Internet Sector

By Carlos Tejada   
985 words
22 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
10
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

BEIJING -- Joseph Chen is seeking China's next innovation.

The 44-year-old U.S.-educated entrepreneur is the founder of Renren Inc., a Chinese social-media service. To counter larger rivals such as Weibo Corp. and WeChat mobile-app owner Tencent Holdings Ltd., Mr. Chen is guiding U.S.-traded Renren toward fast-growing parts of China's Internet business, such as mobile games and online video. He has also made well-timed bets on successful startups such as Vipshop Holdings Ltd., a group-buying company that squeezes discounts out of retailers in exchange for groups of customers. Mr. Chen directed Renren to invest in Social Finance Inc., a U.S. company that uses peer-to-peer lending to fund student loans.

Mr. Chen, a history buff and self-declared binge watcher of Western television shows, spoke to The Wall Street Journal recently about the state of China's innovation.

Edited excerpts:

WSJ: How does the state of innovation in China compare with Silicon Valley?

Mr. Chen: The Silicon Valleys of the world need two essentials. One is economic opportunity. The other is a good lifestyle. I think it is really difficult to beat Silicon Valley in both. Silicon Valley -- with Apple, Google based there -- built an ecosystem of smart people who come in, love the place and stayed close, and the money there stayed there.

WSJ: The Chinese Internet is increasingly dominated by three companies -- Tencent, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Baidu Inc. How does that impact innovation?

Mr. Chen: It's very difficult to compete with them in the same space. So that is partially why you have [handset maker] Xiaomi [Inc.]. The CEO, Lei Jun, is a classmate of mine, a capable guy. When he was trying to start a new company, he probably realized that, on the Internet, it is too difficult. So he picked another area.

The dominance of the companies in the application layer will force innovation to happen in other layers. Even if you innovate in that layer you won't make too much money. You need to find another layer to innovate and disrupt. Fortunately the rapid rise of Android and the natural evolution of handsets and smartphones created a huge marketplace.

WSJ: Which companies should we look at in terms of Chinese innovation?

Mr. Chen: Entrepreneurs are increasingly looking to disrupt traditional industries, where the big networks of the major Internet companies have less influence. I'm thinking about O2O -- online to offline -- for a new class of business.

You have to be willing to do something that the big guys aren't willing to go to the trouble to do. Like in the early days of group buying. Nobody knew that group buying would be so big, so the big players, they didn't do it. It is too much work. You have to rent out thousands of sales forces on the ground to knock on the door of the local vendors and hustle.

WSJ: What's the difference between startups in China and startups in the U.S. and elsewhere?

Mr. Chen: Startups in the U.S. definitely have a more relaxed time than Chinese startups. Venture capital in the U.S. seems more conservative in that they don't like to fund copycats. We invested in SoFi, which is successful, but there are only a few serious competitors. If this same market happened in China, you would have 100 players. Discipline in the supply side of capital I think is there [in the U.S.]. They don't fund too many competitors in the same space. As a result of that, the U.S. startup guys don't need to be as paranoid as their Chinese counterparts, who worry about hundreds of competitors.

WSJ: Is there a risk to China's oversupply of capital?

Mr. Chen: The history of risk-taking in this country is short compared with U.S. and Europe. I think the ability to assess risk to a society can be learned only through up and downs in the market. There will be bubbles burst, and I think society has to go through multiple cycles of that to get a good handle on how to calculate risk.

The China capital markets are so new, so you need multiple cycles of boom and bust. Right now you can't say there is an oversupply, because if you calculate venture capital returns from IPOs, it is probably a good return. Based on history things don't look so bad, but the past is never a safe predictor of the future.

WSJ: What kind of Chinese tech company might go global?

Mr. Chen: For the consumer space I tend to think hardware companies have a better chance historically. You look at Toyota and Samsung. Those are hardware companies coming out of Japan and Korea. If China wants to become a technology powerhouse, it should look at Korea and look at Japan.

WSJ: What do you look for in investments?

Mr. Chen: If you want to build a great, large Internet-based business you want to identify a large, slow-moving, inefficient competitor. Who are Vipshop's competitors? They are small, mom-and-pop apparel shops lined up on the commercial streets of the third-tier, fourth-tier, fifth-tier cities. You go into the store and they have nothing to offer other than convenience. They don't have the selection, they don't have the brand. These are the ideal competitors to have. You want to compete with tens of millions of disorganized individual fighters, farmers with broken down guns, rather than with one elite Roman army.

---

Li Yuan in Beijing contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140921ea9m00001


 BRIEF-Andon Health's unit to receive $25 mln investment from Xiaomi Ventures
Reuters, 08:43, 18 September 2014, 111 words, Thu Sep, (English)
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual ...
Document WCLBA00020140918ea9i004fj

 Sony hopes for PlayStation profit boost as smartphones struggle
Reuters, 07:33, 18 September 2014, 986 words, Sophie Knight, (English)
TOKYO (Reuters) - The head of Sony Corp's PlayStation division hopes to raise its profit outlook for this year, in stark contrast to the Japanese electronics firm's mobile business which has forecast deep losses and sent Sony's stock ...
Document WCLBA00020140918ea9i0040k

 Fitch: Sony's USD1.7bn Write-Down Highlights Weakness in Mobiles
Reuters, 21:27, 17 September 2014, 770 words, (English)
(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG/SYDNEY/SINGAPORE, September 17 (Fitch) Sony's (BB-/Negative) JPY180bn (USD1.65bn) write-down in its mobile communications business comes as no surprise, and is not likely ...
Document WCLBA00020140918ea9i000xh

 UPDATE 3-Sony heads for deeper loss as it shrinks struggling smartphone business
Reuters, 07:05, 17 September 2014, 813 words, Sophie Knight and Reiji Murai, (English)
TOKYO, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Sony Corp cut its earnings outlook for the sixth time on Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai's watch on Tuesday as it announced a massive impairment change on its smartphone unit, which it has failed to grow despite a ...
Document WCLBA00020140917ea9h003sb

 Google launches $105 Android One; eyes low-price smartphone boom
Reuters, 06:22, 15 September 2014, 625 words, Nivedita Bhattacharjee and Tommy Wilkes, (English)
By Nivedita Bhattacharjee and Tommy Wilkes NEW DELHI/MUMBAI (Reuters) - Google Inc(GOOGL.O) launched in India on Monday a $105 smartphone, the first device from its "Android One" initiative which is aimed at boosting sales in key emerging ...
Document WCLBA00020140915ea9f003mn

 Smartphone Giant Xiaomi Backs Peer-to-Peer Lender JimuBox
WSJ Blogs, 07:15, 11 September 2014, 528 words, By Sonja Cheung, (English)
China-based online lender JimuBox has scored a $37.2 million Series B round led by smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. and Shunwei Capital Partners, a venture fund co-founded by the entrepreneur who set up Xiaomi.
Document WCWSJB0020140911ea9b002s1



WSJ.D Technology: China Will Have to Wait for New iPhones

By Lorraine Luk and Josh Chin   
212 words
11 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

China is one of Apple Inc.'s biggest markets by sales and a major driver of its revenue growth. But when it comes to its new iPhones, the country will have to wait, highlighting the difficulties the technology giant faces in getting its China strategy right.

While Apple this week said its new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus would go on sale beginning Sept. 19 in the U.S. and some European and Asian markets, including Hong Kong, it didn't list China as one of countries where they would be immediately available.

It's a change from when Apple launched the iPhone 5S last year and the device was available in China at the same time as it arrived in U.S. stores.

Apple's Beijing-based spokeswoman declined to comment on the reason for the delay this time. She said the company sees China as a key market and is trying to get the new iPhones there as soon as possible.

In China, Apple has faced increasing competition from rival Samsung Electronics Co. and local manufacturers such as Xiaomi Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140911ea9b00012




Delayed iPhones Highlight Apple's China Challenges

By Lorraine Luk in Hong Kong and Josh Chin in Beijing   
1,000 words
11 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

China is one of Apple Inc.'s biggest markets and a major growth driver. But when it comes to the newest iPhones, the country will have to wait, highlighting the difficulties the technology giant faces in getting its China strategy right.

The Cupertino, Calif., company on Tuesday unveiled its new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which have larger screens than previous models. But while Apple said its new smartphones would go on sale Sept. 19 in the U.S. and some European and Asian markets, including Hong Kong, it didn't list China as one of countries where they would be immediately available.

That is a change from Apple's launch of the iPhone 5S last year, when the device was available through major carriers in China at the same time as the U.S.

Apple's Beijing-based spokeswoman declined to comment on the reason for the delay. She said the company sees China as a key market and is trying to get the new iPhones there as soon as possible.

China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which approves the import of mobile devices among many other things, didn't list the new smartphones among devices approved for sale as of Wednesday. Officials didn't respond to a request for comment.

A moderate delay wouldn't likely do lasting damage to Apple's sales in China because of the brand's cachet and because the bigger screens are attractive to Chinese consumers, analysts say. Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, generated $5.94 billion in revenue for Apple during the fiscal third quarter ended June 28, up 28% from a year earlier and making up nearly 16% of its total revenue. That compares with $14.58 billion in the U.S. and $8.09 billion in Europe.

"Apple may face limited supplies initially and could want time to build up the phone's new electronic wallet function there," said Sandy Shen, an analyst at Gartner.

Other analysts speculated that the delay could be due to a recent cut in handset subsidies from Chinese mobile carriers, potentially weakening demand.

Apple has faced increasing competition from Samsung Electronics Co., which was faster to offer the larger screens that many Chinese consumers like for streaming TV shows and playing games. It is also facing growing competition from local manufacturers such as Xiaomi Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd., which are offering phones with increasingly competitive hardware at budget prices.

Apple also is under growing scrutiny tied to labor conditions among its suppliers, and faced criticism in government-run media for its warranty practices and for its location-tracking feature, with the official China Central Television labeling it a security threat. Apple has said it closely monitors labor conditions among suppliers and apologized for its warranty practices. It also says it doesn't track iPhone users.

Still, the U.S. company has increased its market share in the world's largest smartphone market after broadening sales channels. In December, it unveiled a deal to offer phones through China Mobile Ltd., the world's largest mobile carrier. Its share of the Chinese smartphone market rose to 6.5% in the second quarter from 4.9% the year before, according to IDC, making it the country's No. 6 smartphone maker.

"The country's impact on the global smartphone market has continued to increase given its large population, and its shipment growth is still relatively fast compared to the mature markets in the West," said Kitty Fok, a Beijing-based analyst at IDC.

Apple has been criticized in the past by customers for being slow to launch products in China, a phenomenon that has led to a flourishing gray market in iPhones bought elsewhere, typically in Hong Kong.

Hong Kong retailers said they expected the delay would reignite gray-market demand.

"We have seen keen interest in the iPhone 6 among Chinese customers," said Lo Lau, who operates a smartphone store in Hong Kong's bustling Mongkok neighborhood. Mr. Lau said he expects sales of gray-market iPhones to jump between 20% and 30% as a result of the delayed mainland launch.

Apple's new products were the most-discussed topic on Chinese social-media service Sina Weibo on Wednesday. "The iPhone 6 Plus will kill all the big-screen Android devices to become the new must-have for rich people," wrote Wang Guanxiong, a well-known tech marketing expert.

Still, for many users, the most noteworthy element of the release was the translation of "Bigger than Bigger," Apple's slogan for the new phones, on the company's mainland China website. Many said it sounded awkward in Chinese. "Can't Apple afford to hire someone with a basic education to handle the translation?" asked one Weibo user.

Some posted their own slogans in response, among them "Really Damn Big," "Just Big," and "If You Say It's Not Big, You're Not Being Objective." One user, taking a dig at Apple for following Samsung in offering bigger screens, suggested "More Samsung Than Samsung."

There are no prices listed on Apple's mainland China website yet, but the company's Hong Kong website lists the 16-gigabyte iPhone 6 at 5,588 Hong Kong dollars ($721) and the 16GB iPhone 6 Plus at HK$6,388. That's more expensive than the comparable Samsung Galaxy S5, which typically sells for less than 4,000 yuan ($652) in China, and the Mi 4, produced by China's Xiaomi, which goes for about 2,000 yuan.

"Here are three reasons I won't be buying the iPhone 6," read one popular post on Weibo, with a photo attached that repeated the Chinese character for "poor" three times.

The Apple spokeswoman declined to comment on the responses.

---

Ma Si and Yang Jie in Beijing contributed tot this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140910ea9b0000q


 Worth a Kidney? New iPhones Get Mixed Reception in China
WSJ Blogs, 02:53, 10 September 2014, 628 words, (English)
The expanded screen real estate on Apple's new iPhones is widely expected to help the company in China, where consumers prefer big smartphones. But if initial online reaction is any indication, the new devices have a few obstacles to ...
Document WCWSJB0020140910ea9a0018h

 Less Cheap, More Like an iPhone: The New Xiaomi Phone is Unveiled
WSJ Blogs, 05:58, 10 September 2014, 539 words, (English)
Chinese phone maker Xiaomi Inc. emerged three years ago from nowhere to become one of the top-selling brands in China's competitive smartphone market on the strength of its top-shelf specs and cheap prices.?As of this year's first quarter, ...
Document WCWSJB0020140910ea9a001rx

 No sapphire on your new iPhone? China's Huawei has you covered
Reuters, 01:09, 10 September 2014, 801 words, Se Young Lee and Michael Gold, (English)
SEOUL/TAIPEI, Sept 10 (Reuters) - Apple Inc may have disappointed many consumers by not putting sapphire glass covers on its new iPhone, but the scratch-resistant material is gradually making its way into mobile devices despite ...
Document WCLBA00020140910ea9a001xj

 South Korea Hopes Consumer Goods Could Lift Exports to China
WSJ Blogs, 02:38, 5 September 2014, 520 words, By Kwanwoo Jun, (English)
South Korea should focus more on selling finished consumer goods to China in order to turn around another monthly decline in exports to its biggest trade partner, South Korea's finance ministry said on Friday.
Document WCWSJB0020140905ea95001md

 China's Redmi Gone in Seven Minutes in Indonesia
WSJ Blogs, 05:20, 4 September 2014, 356 words, By Resty Woro Yuniar, (English)
Indonesia isn't dubbed a gadget-crazy nation for nothing: Xiaomi's Redmi 1S, which went on sale Thursday morning on ecommerce site Lazada, sold out in less than seven minutes ¡V even with a technical glitch.
Document WCWSJB0020140904ea9400233

 India's smartphone wars: Google's Android One adds to Samsung's worries
Reuters, 00:14, 3 September 2014, 932 words, Nivedita Bhattacharjee, (English)
MUMBAI, Sept 3 (Reuters) - Google Inc's partnership with three Indian phone makers is set to rev up fast-growing demand for lower priced smartphones, and spell more trouble for Samsung Electronics which is rapidly losing share in emerging ...
Document WCLBA00020140903ea93001p7

 Samsung Shares Skid as Analysts Turn Gloomy
MoneyBeat, 29 August 2014, 801 words, Jonathan Cheng, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered " style="width: 553px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd" style="text-align: left;">Visitors walk past a glass door showing the logo of ...
Document BC08551020140829ea8t000b9

 Samsung Shares Skid as Analysts Turn Gloomy
WSJ Blogs, 04:05, 29 August 2014, 761 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
For shareholders in Samsung Electronics Co., it's been a cruel summer.
With the calendar year winding down on August today, shares in South Korea's biggest stock are down about 8.1% for the month, for a total decline of 16% from their June 3 ...
Document WCWSJB0020140829ea8t00209

 Indonesia Says Hello to China's 'Little Rice' Smartphone
WSJ Blogs, 00:14, 28 August 2014, 749 words, By Resty Woro Yuniar, (English)
JAKARTA¡XChina's leading smartphone vendor, Xiaomi, has arrived in gadget-crazy Indonesia. It is the first foray into Southeast Asia's largest economy for the Chinese company, which will start by selling its budget Redmi series exclusively ...
Document WCWSJB0020140828ea8s000p2



Corporate News: Kickstarter, Angels Lead on Sense Funds

By Evelyn M. Rusli 
570 words
25 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

At 23, James Proud is a rising Silicon Valley tech entrepreneur who has raised nearly $13 million in funding -- none of which is from institutional investors.

His company, Hello, raised $10.5 million from a circle of well-connected angel investors, some of whom wrote million-dollar checks. And in a crowdfunding campaign that ended Friday, he raised an additional $2.4 million on Kickstarter, via nearly 20,000 backers who either donated money or preordered his flagship product: Sense, a sleep tracker slated to begin shipping to Kickstarter backers in November for $99.

The device, which eventually will retail for $129, is a small orb that sits on your night stand and measures the pollen in the air, humidity, the light in the room, any sounds and other disturbances at night. It also comes with a small disc, called the pill, that is attached to the sleeper's pillow and tracks movement.

Sense didn't break any records on the crowdfunding site. Ouya, the game console, got $8.6 million; and Pebble, a smartwatch, was the No. 1, with $10.3 million raised in 2012.

But Mr. Proud's path should give some big venture-capital firms pause, as founders like him find there are more ways to raise eight figures without traditional venture-capital firms. In 2011, at age 20, Mr. Proud, was a member of the Thiel Fellows, a group of 20 teenagers paid by billionaire investor Peter Thiel to skip college and pursue entrepreneurship or other projects.

Mr. Proud's circle of backers -- of the non-Kickstarter variety -- include some well-known names in the industry, such as David Marcus, the former head of PayPal; Dan Rose, a Facebook executive; Aaron Sittig, a former designer of Facebook; Shakil Khan, an adviser to startups like Spotify; and Hugo Barra, a Xiaomi executive. According to Mr. Proud, the investors are people, often friends, who offered strategic advantages because of their networks or experience. They're also letting the 23-year-old retain significant control.

"If someone gives you the terms you want and the control you want, you take that," Mr. Proud says.

That isn't to say he would never turn to venture capital if he ever needed the money down the road to expand, he says.

Mr. Proud, a native of South London, says the structure has helped him run his company the way he wants to. In San Francisco's Portrero Hill neighborhood, Hello's cavernous office is filled with 20 employees. Half are hardware experts from companies such as Foxconn and Garmin, and the other half are software brains. Sketches of the Sense globe and complex formulas are scrawled all over the white walls.

Founded in September 2012, Hello spent about 18 months working on a wearable device, but it decided to scrap those plans in March after it became clear from conversations with prospective customers that a sleep-centric device was compelling enough. Four months later, Sense launched on Kickstarter.

While Mr. Proud doesn't consider Kickstarter to be similar to a fundraising round, since most of the money will go to manufacturing, he says the site gave the team negotiating power with manufacturers and, more important, a hyper-engaged community to provide feedback.

Kickstarter "certainly gives people more options," Mr. Proud says.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140825ea8p0002e


 Coolpad Abandons Gold Phone Casing Amid China's Anti-Graft Push
WSJ Blogs, 01:38, 25 August 2014, 376 words, By Lorraine Luk, (English)
Even color could be a sensitive topic in China when its president Xi Jinping is making the fight against corruption his top priority.
Chinese smartphone maker Coolpad has shelved its plan to use a golden casing for its flagship smartphone ...
Document WCWSJB0020140825ea8p001p5

 Karbonn Mobiles expects to go public by 2016
Reuters, 13:43, 25 August 2014, 504 words, Lehar Maan and Soham Chatterjee, (English)
(Reuters) - Karbonn Mobiles, the third-largest smartphone maker in India, expects to go public by 2016 as it bets on sales of Android devices made in partnership with Google Inc to boost revenue growth.
Document WCLBA00020140825ea8p005y0

 Page 98 of 98     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

