 


Corporate News --- PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY: A Powerful Tablet for Android Die-Hards

By Nathan Olivarez-Giles   
972 words
5 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
25
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Google has had a really good thing going with the Nexus 7 these past two years. With its 7-inch display, it was the tablet equivalent of a paperback book: effortless to tote around, and cheap enough ($200 for the first-Gen; $230 for last year's model) to be a no-brainer purchase. It was perfect for e-books, games, email, video, websites and social feeds. With its great display, ample power and pleasing portability, it felt like it was worth more than its price tag.

The Nexus 7 formula wasn't broken, but Google went and fixed it anyway. The Nexus 7 tablet has been discontinued, and the Nexus 9 is the replacement.

Designed by Google in collaboration with HTC, the Nexus 9 is bigger, less portable and almost twice as expensive as its predecessor. With a 9-inch display and $399 price tag, it is now competing squarely against Apple's iPad Air models. After using the Nexus 9 for almost a week, I can say that while it is a great tablet, it isn't for everybody.

Performance isn't a concern with the Nexus 9. It feels Dale Earnhardt Jr.-fast thanks to a new 64-bit Nvidia Tegra K1 processor and 2GB of RAM. The 8.9-inch display packs a 2048x1536-pixel resolution, the same found on Apple's 9.7-inch iPad Air 2, and it does look about as good as Apple's latest -- although the Nexus is more prone to glare.

The styling is refreshingly minimal and utilitarian compared with the upscale flash of Apple's aluminum iPads, or Samsung's chrome-edged and leather-backed Galaxy tablets. The soft-touch plastic back offers plenty of grip without feeling sticky. The one detail that feels remotely luxurious is a brushed-metal frame sandwiched between the back panel and the Gorilla Glass 3 face. At 0.31 inches thick and 0.93 pounds, it is thin and light enough that holding it with one hand is easy -- though still not as easy as the slightly thinner, slightly lighter iPad Air 2.

The Nexus 9 is really designed to fade away into the background, so that what grabs your attention is Google's beautifully slick new version of Android known as 5.0 or, more commonly, Lollipop. In fact, the Nexus 9's most commendable feature is that it is among the first devices that can give you a taste of that new OS.

Every hardware maker changes Android in the name of differentiation, but they all introduce faults: Samsung overloads Android with features you don't need, LG makes Android feel cluttered, Asus makes it look different with no added utility. And Amazon reworks Android entirely, making it a more direct pipeline to its digital storefront.

If you want to see Android as Google intended it -- not coincidentally the best rendition of Android available -- you need to get a Nexus device.

Every aspect of Android has been totally redesigned for Lollipop, and many details demonstrate how Lollipop is easier to use than previous versions. For example, you can double tap on the Nexus 9's display to wake the tablet up. If you have any app notifications, they'll appear stacked like a pile of fortune cookie paper strips, right in the middle of the lock screen. You can swipe away any that you don't want to see again, and double tap a paper scrap to jump directly to the app it that sent it.

The interface is so smooth that it feels almost like liquid, and its playful pop-art look brings more personality to Android than I've ever seen before. Google's clock, calculator and calendar apps are full of bright colors (magentas, teals, light blues), and there are illustrations, reminiscent of those used in Google Now, within the calendar and other apps.

Details like this make Android feel like it was thoughtfully crafted rather than coldly programmed. And playing up the connection to Google Now is wise: The service that aims to predict what you might need -- appointments, sports scores, flight details, package deliveries, nearby concerts, upcoming birthdays -- before you ask for it is one thing Google has cooked up that Apple still can't match.

Unfortunately, when it comes to apps, Android still feels behind the curve compared with iOS. The iPad just has more apps tailored specifically to the larger display. Sure, Android now has a ton of top-notch games to play ("Clash of Clans," "Star Wars: Galactic Defense," "Monument Valley"). It also has access to Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Instant Video, Spotify, Pandora and Beats -- nearly any decent streaming media besides iTunes. But must-have apps like Twitter and Facebook still feel like stretched-out phone apps rather than something built for the big screen. And app makers still overwhelmingly launch their latest designs on iOS before heading over to Android.

The Nexus 9 also lacks the multitasking powers that some key non-iPads have: Samsung hacked its version of Android to run multiple apps in pop-up windows; Windows tablets run apps side by side.

This all leaves the Nexus 9 in a peculiar place. It is an outstanding piece of hardware, and the best all-round Android experience available on a tablet. But if you care about apps, you're still going to lean toward an iPad, and if you care about productivity, you may well aim toward the Galaxy Tab S or even a Surface Pro 3 instead. And if you just want to curl up on the couch with a good book or movie, well, go to eBay and find yourself a Nexus 7. They're still great.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141104eab50001f


 Disney Gets Apple and Google to Play Nice
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 4 November 2014, 918 words, (English)
Summary: Sprint reports a huge drop in subscribers; Apple and Google will let you share Disney content between operating systems; Taylor Swift yanks her catalog from Spotify and a review of the Nexus 9. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories ...
Document MMSAJW0020141104eab400001



WSJ.D Live (A Special Report) --- No Stores; No Ads; Just a Lot of Sales: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra describes how the Chinese phone maker relies on its 'family' of customers

By Rebecca Blumenstein   
847 words
3 November 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
R7
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Hugo Barra left Google Inc. a year ago to join Chinese-based Xiaomi Inc., the manufacturer of the best-selling phone in the world's biggest market, and a company that operates almost entirely without traditional advertising or retail stores. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in 2013 and is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year. The Wall Street Journal's deputy editor in chief, Rebecca Blumenstein, talked to Mr. Barra, Xiaomi's global vice president. Edited excerpts follow.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: What is the biggest contributor to Xiaomi's success? Is it a cult that you've created in China?

MR. BARRA: Our core belief is basically that if you treat your users or customers as friends, if you listen to them carefully for their feedback, if you respect their views, if you really take care of them, they become attached to you and to your products. They tell their friends. They forgive your mistakes. They help you out. It's kind of like becoming part of a family. So, I prefer family to cult.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Many companies say they involve customers or fans in beta tests and testing. Does Xiaomi do completely external beta testing constantly?

MR. BARRA: That's a nice way to look at it. We have this website, which is our user forum. On the China side of the website, we have about 30 million registered users, and about 400,000 posts every day, from product feedback, bug reports, questions, feature recommendations and so on. On top of that, about 10% of people who buy our smartphones are on what we call our beta track. They've chosen to receive software updates every Friday, with new features, some of which are still sort of only half baked, half implemented, because they want to provide feedback.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: You sell your phones at cost. You are a $10 billion company in revenue, perhaps one of the fastest-growing tech companies ever. But how are you going to make money?

MR. BARRA: We've built our own e-commerce platform from the very beginning. We sell the majority of our products on e-commerce that way. And it's not just phones. We have about 1,000 SKUs on our website.

If you look at our product portfolio, it's incredibly simple and focused. This year, we've only announced two new smartphone models, Redmi Note and Mi4. These models stay in the market for up to 24 months, so it's a very long life cycle. The economies of scale are huge. And all marketing is social media.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: There have been some headlines about the security of data stored in Xiaomi phones being in data centers in China. Are you moving data centers outside of China to counter such concerns?

MR. BARRA: I actually think Chinese companies are, to a certain extent, held to a higher privacy standard than most companies out there.

We are moving to a global infrastructure with data centers in Asia Pacific, North America, and next year India.

That will help with performance. It helps us comply with local data protection regulations and so on. But then, it has this amazing benefit of making people feel better that they have their data next to them.

MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Jony Ive, Apple's senior vice president of design, has criticized certain phone makers for producing phones that looked a lot like iPhones. He called it outright theft. Many people took that to be, even if he didn't say Xiaomi, a direct slap at Xiaomi. What's your reaction?

MR. BARRA: I don't think Jony mentioned the word "Xiaomi." Our designers, our engineers, are inspired by great products, by great design out there. In today's world, who isn't? Point me to a product in our industry that had completely unique design language. You're not going to be able to find one.

Apple is the world's design Mecca. And Apple inspires itself on great products and great ideas as well. The iPhone 6, in my opinion the most beautiful smartphone ever built, without a doubt, carries design language that's very HTC-like from a few years back, of course with an astonishing twist of Apple innovation on top of it. But it is a somewhat familiar design language.

It's fascinating that Apple took existing ideas that were very good, added their twist of innovation on top, and in many cases actually made those ideas better or much better. Like, quick settings on iOS is much better than quick settings on Android. But it was on Android well before you'd find it on an iOS device. So, this idea of building upon great ideas and adding a twist of innovation is what they do. It's what we do.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141103eab30000s




Business
Corporate Watch

521 words
2 November 2014
12:51
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Diageo

Agreement to Swap Brands

Diageo PLC is nearing an asset-swap deal with Jose Cuervo that would give the British liquor company full ownership of a fast-growing tequila brand in exchange for its Bushmills whiskey label.

The two sides are in advanced talks for a deal that would hand Diageo the 50% of Don Julio tequila that it doesn¡¦t already own as well as a cash payment, according to people familiar with the matter.

In return, it would hand over Bushmills to Cuervo, they said.

Exact terms of the expected agreement, which could be announced as soon as this week, couldn¡¦t be learned.

Consummation of the deal would enable Diageo to realize its stated ambition of boosting its presence in the high-end tequila segment after its efforts to buy Jose Cuervo outright fell apart nearly two years ago.

Diageo and Jose Cuervo, owned by the Beckmann family of Mexico, long had a distribution pact that terminated last year. In advance of the expiration, the two sides discussed a takeover of Cuervo by Diageo, but couldn¡¦t ultimately agree on terms.

Dana Mattioli

HTC

Smartphone Maker Expects Flat Sales, Profitable Quarter

HTC Corp. on Friday predicted sales would at least stay flat in the fourth quarter after three years of decline.

The Taiwanese smartphone maker expects revenue of between 43 billion New Taiwan dollars and NT$47 billion (US$1.41 billion to US$1.54 billion) for the current quarter ending Dec. 31. The target range represents a growth of 2.7% to 12% from NT$41.86 billion in the third quarter, and as much as 9.6% higher than the NT$42.90 billion it fetched in the same period in 2013.

HTC also expects to remain profitable for the third straight quarter. For the three months ended Sept. 30, HTC reported a net profit of NT$640 million, compared with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion a year earlier.

¡§We are forecasting a pretty material increase in handset shipment volume¡¨ for the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang told investors during a conference call. Mr. Chang declined to disclose the company¡¦s shipment forecast.

But analysts say HTC still faces headwinds in a market dominated by Apple Inc. and fast-growing Chinese competitors. A challenge HTC and most Android handset makers face in this quarter is the stronger-than-expected demand for the new iPhones.

Aries Poon

Danone

Dairy Giant to Acquire Stake In Chinese Milk-Powder Firm

Danone SA has agreed to acquire a 25% stake in Chinese milk-powder maker Yashili International Holdings Ltd. for $566 million to bolster its presence in China.

The French dairy company will buy 1.2 billion shares in Yashili for 3.70 Hong Kong dollars (48 U.S. cents) each, the Hong Kong-listed Chinese company said Friday.

When the deal is completed, China Mengniu Dairy Co.¡¦s stake in Yashili will decline to 51.04% from 68.05%.

China¡¦s dairy industry is fragmented, making quality control a challenge. That is pushing dairy companies to consolidate.

Yvonne Lee

Document WSJO000020141102eab2004pl




Tech
HTC Sees Brighter Fourth-Quarter Sales; Smartphone Maker HTC Faces Competition From China, Apple but Expects to Stay Profitable

By Aries Poon 
554 words
31 October 2014
02:13
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. on Friday predicted sales would at least stay flat in the fourth quarter after three years of decline.

The Taiwanese smartphone maker expects revenue of 43 billion New Taiwan dollars to NT$47 billion (US$1.41 billion to US$1.55 billion) for the current quarter ending Dec. 31. The target range represents a growth of 2.7% to 12% from NT$41.86 billion in the third quarter, and as much as 9.6% higher than the NT$42.90 billion it fetched in the same period in 2013.

HTC also expects to remain profitable for the third straight quarter. In the three months ended Sept. 30, HTC reported a net profit of NT$640 million, compared with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion a year earlier.

We are forecasting a pretty material increase in handset shipment volume [for the fourth quarter],¡¨ Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang told investors during a conference call. Mr. Chang declined to disclose the company¡¦s shipment forecast.

¡§I hope the momentum will extend into the first quarter of next year,¡¨ Mr. Chang said.

But analysts say HTC still faces headwinds in a market dominated by Apple Inc. and fast-growing Chinese players.

A challenge HTC and most Android handset makers face in this quarter is the stronger-than-expected demand for the new iPhones. Apple recently launched two iPhones, one with a bigger 5? inch screen. Both offer one of the biggest revamps to the iPhone in two years and are well-timed for the year-end holiday season.

HTC, once the world¡¦s top smartphone maker by volume, dropped out of the top 10 largest handset vendors by shipments last year. Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. have been grabbing HTC¡¦s share in the high-end market, while low-cost Chinese makers have been squeezing the Taiwanese company in the mid- and low-end markets.

HTC is hoping to reverse years of shrinking sales by beefing up its midrange product lines and expanding into non-smartphone businesses.

The company has recently added a selfie-focused smartphone to its midprice Desire line. It has also unveiled the Nexus 9 tablet with Google Inc., a waterproof action camera and software for taking selfie photos.

Mr. Chang said HTC has plans to launch new smartphones over the next two quarters, but declined to give more details.

He also said the project with Google doesn¡¦t mean HTC is returning to contract manufacturing of phones and tablets for other brands.

¡§We are open to, and will also consider, co-branding opportunities with partners,¡¨ he added.

But the midtier market is getting crowded, which complicates HTC¡¦s reliance on that segment as a solution, analysts say.

Samsung said Thursday it would seek to compete head-on against low-priced Chinese rivals amid falling sales in China. Chinese brands like Xiaomi Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. and Lenovo Group Ltd. are already dominating the that market.

¡§Apparently HTC is trying to stay away from the competition from Apple in the high-end segment. But the smartphone market, especially the mid- and low-end segments, is still very tough,¡¨ said KGI Securities analyst Richard Ko.

Document WSJO000020141031eaav0015p


 Android co-founder Andy Rubin to leave Google
Reuters India, 20:26, 30 October 2014, 200 words, Devika Krishna Kumar, (English)
By Devika Krishna Kumar (Reuters) - Google Inc (GOOGL.O) said on Thursday that Andy Rubin, co-founder of its Android mobile business and head of its nascent robotics effort is leaving the company. Rubin will start a company to support ...
Document WC45421020141031eaav00021



HTC forecasts higher Q4 sales; above market estimates

152 words
31 October 2014
02:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp said on Friday that it expects revenue in the fourth quarter to reach T$43 billion-T$47 billion ($1.4 billion-$1.57 billion), beating market expectations of T$41.5 billion.

The forecast was also better than the T$41.86 billion revenue in the third quarter, the company said in a statement, without elaborating.

Gross profit margin in the fourth quarter is expected to be between 19 and 21 percent, it said. The gross margin was 22.9 percent in the third quarter.

Earlier this month, HTC said it earned T$640 million in unaudited net profit during the September quarter, well above a T$216.23 million mean estimate of 13 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. (Reporting by Faith Hung; Editing by Ryan Woo) 

Released: 2014-10-31T08:17:48.000Z

Document LBA0000020141031eaav0072f


 HTC forecasts higher Q4 sales; above market estimates
Reuters, 02:17, 31 October 2014, 241 words, (English)
TAIPEI Oct 31 (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp said on Friday that it expects revenue in the fourth quarter to reach T$43 billion-T$47 billion ($1.4 billion-$1.57 billion), beating market expectations of T$41.5 billion.
Document WCLBA00020141031eaav002e6

 Taiwan stocks up on Wall Street, GDP data; HTC up before outlook
Reuters, 22:29, 30 October 2014, 185 words, Faith Hung, (English)
TAIPEI Oct 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan stocks rose 0.2 percent on Friday as market sentiment was buoyed by a rally on Wall Street and better-than-expected economic growth at home, paced by gains of Apple Inc suppliers.
Document WCLBA00020141031eaav001bc

 Android co-founder Andy Rubin to leave Google
Reuters, 20:00, 30 October 2014, 258 words, Devika Krishna Kumar, (English)
Oct 30 (Reuters) - Google Inc said on Thursday that Andy Rubin, co-founder of its Android mobile business and head of its nascent robotics effort is leaving the company.
Document WCLBA00020141031eaav000gr



What to Watch in the Day Ahead - Thursday, Oct. 30

1,800 words
29 October 2014
13:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The Day Ahead is an email and PDF publication that includes the day's major stories and events, analyses and other features. To receive The Day Ahead, Eikon users can register at . Thomson One users can register at RT/DAY/US. All times in ET/GMT) The U.S. Commerce Department releases gross domestic product figures. The economy likely advanced at a solid 3.0 percent annual rate in the third quarter. The figure would mark a slowdown from the second quarter's outsized 4.6 percent gain, but a reading of domestic demand likely gained speed with much less of the strength coming from inventories - a sign of growing fundamental strength. While weakness overseas has raised questions over the sustainability of above-trend U.S. growth, many economists think a tightening labor market is providing the fuel needed to keep the recovery on track (0830/1230). The Labor Department releases weekly unemployment claims data (0830/1230).

Mastercard Inc's volume growth has been decelerating due to a key issuer loss. Shares of the world's second-largest payments company are down as much as 12 percent this year on investor concerns about international sanctions on Russia and competition from new forms of mobile-based payments. The company reports third-quarter results and is expected to implement merchant-acquiring fee increases in January that could add to its revenue growth and earnings. Time Warner Cable Inc reports third-quarter results before the bell. Investors will be looking for any comment regarding the decision of HBO and CBS to go over-the-top and anything new on the pending merger with Comcast. Social networking website for professionals LinkedIn Corp reports third-quarter results. LinkedIn is likely to beat the average analyst estimate, according to StarMine data, as it gains market share from job sites such as Monster.com and Careerbuilder. The company is also expected to benefit from its timeline ads and growing user base. Investors would focus on user growth rate and engagement after social media companies such as Twitter reported slowing user engagement. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen gives welcome remarks before the "National Summit on Diversity in the Economics Profession" conference hosted by the Federal Reserve, in Washington (0900/1300). Brazilian miner Vale SA is expected to post a hefty drop in third-quarter earnings as iron ore prices fell to five-year-lows during the quarter. Investors will be keeping an eye out for any news on cuts to investment projections or any projects that might be dropped. Gold miners Newmont Mining Corp and Goldcorp Inc reports third-quarter results. Newmont is expected to report a drop in third-quarter profit and lower revenue. The company resumed copper concentrate shipments from Indonesia in late September, ending a nine-month suspension from its Batu Hijau mine after the government imposed hefty export taxes. Analysts will watch for any changes to Newmont's production forecasts, which the company updated in late September. Goldcorp is expected to report a dip in profit, but higher revenue. Any changes to production forecasts will be a key focus for investors. Some analysts expect the start up of Goldcorp's Cerro Negro mine in Argentina and resumption of production at the Los Filos mine to boost quarterly production. Also of interest are any comments about the El Morro gold and copper project. Mosaic Co reports third-quarter results after recently curtailing phosphate output due to rising costs. Of interest is any update on how long the curtailment will last and thoughts on timing of a potash supply contract between China's Sinofert and Canpotex, a company owned by Mosaic and other North American miners. Starbucks Corp, the world's biggest coffee chain, posts fourth-quarter results before the bell. Investors expect Starbucks to report another quarter of red-hot U.S. cafe sales, but are braced for any inkling of a cooling trend. They will also keep an eye on its performance in China, where sales at KFC and McDonald's have been hard hit by a meat supplier scandal. Western Union Co, the world's largest money-transfer company, is expected to report a dip in third-quarter profit, hurt by higher regulatory costs. The company is facing rising costs as regulators worldwide crack down on money laundering. Western Union, which has ramped up its digital money transfer business, is being investigated by U.S. regulators for misrepresenting the performance of its digital unit. The company has pushed its guidance of $500 million in digital revenue beyond 2015. Western Union has been negatively affected by slowing consumer money transfer growth due to low foreign exchange volatility. Health insurer Cigna Corp, which has traditionally focused on employer-based health plans, is expected to report a decline in third-quarter profit. Asset manager Invesco Ltd is scheduled to report third-quarter results before market opens. Analysts expect the money manager to earn 62 cents per share, up from 55 cents per share a year earlier. Kellogg Co, the world's largest maker of breakfast cereal, cut its full-year adjusted sales and profit forecasts in July as demand for its Corn Flakes and Special K cereals continued to wane in the United States, its biggest market. The company has reported five straight quarters of sales declines in its U.S. cereal business, hurt by the rising popularity of other breakfast items such as yogurt and frozen egg sandwiches. When the company reports third-quarter results, investors will look for details on how it plans to revive its U.S. business and implement its strategy of repositioning its brands to focus on their nutritional value. ConocoPhillips is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings and update investors on its big investment in growing production from U.S. shale fields including the Eagle Ford in south Texas in a time when crude oil prices have fallen more than 20 percent. National Oilwell Varco Inc, the largest U.S. oilfield equipment provider, is expected to post a higher third-quarter profit, buoyed by demand for its land rigs and jack-up rigs, which are used in shallower waters. Investors will look for any outlook on capital spending considering the recent downward spiral of oil prices. Offshore driller ENSCO Plc is expected to report a lower third-quarter profit, hurt by weak demand, which has in turn led to an oversupply of rigs. Investors will be on the lookout for any efforts to reduce costs and comment on drilling activity and customer response, giving the decline in oil prices. Coal miner Alpha Natural Resources Inc, which is struggling with falling prices for steel-making coal and government regulations that are causing electric utilities to close coal-fired power plants, is expected to report a bigger third-quarter loss and third straight drop in quarterly revenue. Investors will be looking for comments on further cuts in coal production, impact of the rail issues, demand for steel-making coal and further cost-cutting initiatives. Auto parts maker Johnson Controls Inc is likely to benefit from higher demand in its power solutions unit as automakers increasingly look to build more fuel-efficient vehicles. When the company reports fourth-quarter results, investors will be looking for comments on its JV with Chinese company Yanfeng Automotive Trim Systems, a move that is expected to create the world's largest automotive interiors company. Harman International Industries Inc, which makes car audio systems, is expected to post first-quarter revenue above analysts' estimates, according to StarMine data. The company is expected to benefit from higher sales of its car audio systems. Investors will be looking out for updates to the company's full-year outlook. GoPro Inc is likely to post a better-than-expected third-quarter profit, according to StarMine, helped by strong demand for its wearable cameras used to record outdoor activities and sports. The company recently launched an entry-level camera and a new flagship camera - Hero4 - ahead of the holiday shopping season as competition intensifies in the wearable camera market with rivals such as Garmin, Sony, JVC and even HTC launching or revamping their offerings. Online travel agency Expedia Inc, which gets more than half of its revenue from the United States, is expected to post higher third-quarter revenue and profit, driven by higher hotel and flight bookings. Investors will look for an update on how world travel concerns due to Ebola may impact the company in the current quarter. News and information company Thomson Reuters Corp reports third-quarter results. The company said net sales for its financial products were positive in the second quarter and analysts and investors will be keen to hear if that is a trend. Additionally, there likely will be questions around new messaging products out in the marketplace that are trying to displace Bloomberg. The New York Times Co reports third-quarter results. Subscription revenue growth is slowing though the company made big strides in online advertising. Questions remain about where it plans to cut after it announced a reduction in staff earlier this month. Outerwall Inc, the operator of Redbox video rental kiosks, is expected to report third-quarter revenue above estimates, according to StarMine data. The company, which is grappling with lower revenue from the Redbox video rental kiosk business, is expected to benefit from the release of a number of blockbuster movies on DVDs in the second half of the year. Navigation software maker Trimble Navigation Ltd is expected to report a third-quarter profit below analysts' estimates, according to StarMine data. Investors will look for comments on its fourth-quarter forecast. Audio chipmaker Audience Inc is expected to report third-quarter revenue below estimates after its biggest customer, Samsung, warned of increasing competition and weak earnings. Analysts will be looking for fourth-quarter guidance from the company, which supplies chips that improve voice quality in mobile phones. Beauty products company Elizabeth Arden Inc, struggling with weak sales for the past year, is expected to report another disappointing quarter as sales of perfumes, its biggest division, continues to shrink. When the company report first-quarter results, investors will watch out for its progress on restructuring and new product launches this holiday season. Brazil's IGP-M index, which encompasses wholesale, construction costs and consumer prices, is the country's broadest price measure and data for October is scheduled for release. It has declined in recent months as wholesale food prices dropped, suggesting a relief in consumer inflation in coming months. Chile's unemployment figures for July-September are also expected in the day. Jobless numbers have been gradually creeping up as the economic slowdown bites. (Compiled by Ayesha Sruti Ahmed in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) 

Released: 2014-10-29T19:47:14.000Z

Document LBA0000020141029eaat00nro


 Xiaomi's Hugo Barra on Apple's Design Language
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 304 words, (English)
Summary: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra offers his thoughts on Apple's approach to product design at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, Calif.
So I've had a few times and I'll repeat that. In our designers our engineers are inspired by great ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas0018i



Tech
Xiaomi Defends Its Smartphone Business Model; Markets Chosen to Fit Low-Cost Approach, Hugo Barra Says

By Daisuke Wakabayashi 
678 words
28 October 2014
09:32
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. said its international expansion plans are dictated by choosing markets where its low-cost business model will work well and not by avoiding areas of potential intellectual-property-litigation risk sweeping across the smartphone industry.

Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference, Hugo Barra, Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, said it looks for markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Those markets, Mr. Barra said, are where Xiaomi¡¦s model of selling smartphones at near cost works especially well.

Xiaomi passed Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China in the second quarter, according to Canalys, a research firm. It has moved into India, Indonesia and other parts of Asia. Mr. Barra said the company is looking at a move into Brazil and Mexico next.

Xiaomi has taken the Chinese smartphone market by storm. It offers its phones at rock-bottom prices, often selling out new models online in minutes. It makes money by charging for services and accessories that accompany the phones. It also relies on a legion of loyal fans to test new features and drum up enthusiasm for the company.

But for all of Xiaomi¡¦s successes, rivals and critics have said the company would face patent infringements if it expanded to the U.S. or Europe because it doesn¡¦t have enough intellectual property to strike cross-licensing patent deals with other smartphone manufacturers.

¡§Our situation when it comes to patents is the same as everyone else,¡¨ said Mr. Barra, noting that his company files for a significant number of patents in China and strikes licensing deals abroad. Litigation risk ¡§is not a determining factor¡¨ in deciding the best markets for Xiaomi¡¦s international expansion, he said.

The issue came to prominence earlier this month when Jony Ive, Apple¡¦s senior vice president of design, was asked about Xiaomi and how some smartphone designs seem to resemble the iPhone. Without mentioning Xiaomi specifically, the usually soft-spoken Mr. Ive said it was ¡§theft¡¨ and called it ¡§lazy.¡¨

Mr. Barra said there is no such thing as a completely unique design language in the smartphone industry, noting that Apple¡¦s iPhone 6 takes a chapter from designs by Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. He says that what Apple does is no different than what Xiaomi does. ¡§This idea of building upon great ideas and putting a twist on it is what we do,¡¨ he said.

An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.

Xiaomi¡¦s smartphones run on a version of Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system. Xiaomi is sometimes called ¡§the Apple of China¡¨ for the excitement it generates among consumers. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in the past year and it is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year.

The company poses a threat to other smartphone manufacturers because of its willingness to accept low margins on hardware to make money elsewhere. For example, Xiaomi¡¦s popular Redmi phone is about a quarter of the price of the iPhone 6, which sells for more than $800 in China.

¡§We fundamentally believe that innovation is not a luxury item. Innovation is for everyone,¡¨ said Mr. Barra. ¡§We fundamentally believe that when it costs you $200 to make something, you shouldn¡¦t sell it for $600.¡¨

Mr. Barra reiterated that the company has been moving data belonging to international users to servers outside China¡Xin Singapore and North America¡Xin an effort to assuage users¡¦ concerns about privacy. He said the decision to migrate servers outside of China was driven partially by a desire to improve performance by reducing network outages and latency, but he said users like to have data close.

¡§It makes people feel better that they have data next to them,¡¨ Mr. Barra said.

¡§Chinese companies are held to a higher standard than other companies out there.¡¨

Document WSJO000020141028eaas005pl


 iPad Mini 3 Review: Buy the iPad Mini 2 Instead
WSJ Blogs, 20:02, 21 October 2014, 437 words, By Joanna Stern, (English)
Here¡¦s my review of the $400 iPad Mini 3: Buy the $300 iPad Mini 2 instead.
While Apple worked overtime to upgrade the iPad Air 2, the Mini 3 just got a fingerprint sensor. Oh, and sorry, how dare I forget? It also now comes in gold.
Document WCWSJB0020141022eaam0002t



WSJ.D Technology: Pricey Google Devices Target Apple Buyers --- Bigger Nexus Smartphone, Tablet, TV Set-Top Box Arriving Next Month

By Alistair Barr and Rolfe Winkler   
670 words
16 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Google Inc. unveiled three Nexus-branded devices on Wednesday, signaling plans to compete with Apple Inc. for high-end consumers.

Google's new Nexus 6 smartphone, Nexus 9 tablet and Nexus Player set-top box are priced slightly below, or in line with, competing devices from Apple. In the past, Google has priced new models significantly below Apple products.That is a departure for Google, which in the past has priced new models significantly below Apple products.

Google also said it would introduce a new version of its Android operating system, dubbed Android L, for Lollipop, next month.

Unlike Apple, Google licenses its operating system to other phone makers. With the new releases, Google aims to compete more with Apple at the premium end of the mobile-device market and help partners churn out cheap handsets for developing markets.

"We deeply respect what Apple is doing, but we take a very different approach," said Sundar Pichai, who runs Google's Android, Chrome and Apps businesses. "With Android L, we wanted to show the entire spectrum."

Android powered 85% of smartphones shipped globally in the second quarter, according to Strategy Analytics. But in developed markets, such as the U.S., Apple devices remain popular with more affluent customers. That gives Apple an advantage because its users spend more on applications, encouraging developers to work on its platform first.

Google's three new devices can be preordered online later this week. The phone will be sold in 27 countries and will be in stores in November.

At 5.9 inches diagonally, the Nexus 6 is larger than Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus, which measures 5.5 inches. It will sell for $649, compared with $749 for the iPhone 6 Plus. Last year, Google introduced the Nexus 5 at $349.

Mr. Pichai said the goal of Nexus products isn't to sell lots of devices, but to provide a "road map" to help other Android device makers, such as Samsung Electronics Co., develop similar products.

The Nexus 6 will be available through the four major U.S. wireless carriers and sold in their stores, with two-year contracts and monthly installment plans that reduce the upfront cost of the device, Mr. Pichai said. Verizon Communications Inc. didn't carry the two most recent Nexus phones.

The Nexus 6 smartphone is made by Motorola Mobility, the handset manufacturer that Google is selling to China's Lenovo Group.

The Nexus 9 tablet, made by HTC Corp., features an 8.9-inch screen and starts at $399. An optional keyboard cover costs $129. It will be available in 30 countries and in stores next month. Google hopes the Nexus 9 can substitute for laptops in some work situations. Microsoft Corp. has tried that strategy with its Surface tablet, but it has failed to catch on with lots of consumers.Mr. Pichai said many people already use Android tablets, which should help get the Nexus 9 adopted in the office and on business trips.

The Nexus 9's $399 starting price is also close to what Apple charges for its iPads. The 9.7-inch tablets from Apple start at $399 and the latest iPad Air tablet starts $499. Apple is expected to unveil new iPads Thursday.

The Nexus Player is a small set-top box shaped like a hockey puck that connects to TVs and uses Wi-Fi to stream movies and TV shows. It doubles as a gaming console, letting users play Android games on a larger screen. Asustek Computer Inc. made the gadget.

The set-top box costs $99 and will be sold in the U.S. and Canada through Google's Play store in early November. That matches Apple's $99 set-top box, Apple TV. The Nexus Player has an optional game controller that costs $39.99.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141016eaag00030


 L Is for Lollipop: Google¡¦s Android 5.0 Gets Sweet New Name
WSJ Blogs, 11:01, 15 October 2014, 348 words, By WSJ Staff, (English)
Google showed the world the first peek of Android 5.0, its latest phone and tablet operating system, back in June, but only called it "L." On Wednesday, Google confirmed that the L stands for Lollipop.
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf004pk

 Google¡¦s Nexus Line: Nexus 6 Phablet, Nexus 9 Tablet and Nexus Player
WSJ Blogs, 11:01, 15 October 2014, 856 words, By WSJ Staff, (English)
A day ahead of Apple's expected introduction of next-gen iPads and iMacs, Google is announcing three new Nexus devices: a Nexus 6 smartphone, a Nexus 9 tablet and the Nexus Player, a set-top box for streaming media and games. The new trio ...
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf004ph

 A Merry Shopping Season On The Way
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 9 October 2014, 638 words, (English)
Summary: Patrice Sikora reports on the latest holiday shopping forecast, college grads with non-degree jobs, a camera just for selfies and more.
Document MMSAJZ0020141009eaa9000dx

 PC Sales Drop
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 9 October 2014, 824 words, (English)
Summary: PC sales take a tumble - and - Apple prepares to host a media event. WSJ's Bill Fantini has those stories and more.
Good morning this is clearly tech briefing from the Wall Street Journal for Thursday October 9 I'm bill found ...
Document MMSAJW0020141009eaa900001



INTERVIEW-HTC CFO says company will not need to tap markets in 2015

478 words
8 October 2014
19:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

NEW YORK, Oct 8 (Reuters) - HTC Corp will not need to tap the capital markets in 2015 or even beyond, the Taiwanese smartphone maker's chief financial officer told Reuters on Wednesday, citing its lack of debt, $1.7 billion in cash and the ability to fund itself.

"I don't think we need to worry about it at all," Chialin Chang said in an interview on the sidelines of the company's launch of a new smartphone and miniature connected camera. "We're not going to the capital markets for funding. We can self-fund ourselves very sufficiently."

HTC's phones have often struggled to translate positive early reviews into strong sales and the Taipei-based former contract manufacturer has found it difficult to build its own identity in an increasingly competitive space.

The company last week reported better-than-forecast third-quarter profit, but mainly thanks to cost cuts rather than improved sales.

Chang said the company now has a strong portfolio of phones at prices that will attract buyers in both developed markets and emerging ones.

"I think with a more robust portfolio we're going to be able to show that we can grow again," he said. "Hopefully people will feel in the next earnings call with the guidance, we can get the momentum back."

He also said the company has no interest in being acquired and that it can "best deliver shareholder value on our own, independently."

Like other, larger mobile phone makers such as Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, HTC is trying to diversify into other "connected" devices to find new growth outside an increasingly commoditized space, though he said phones remained the company's "key bread and butter."

Chang declined to comment on reports that Google Inc has selected HTC to make its upcoming 9-inch (23-cm) tablet or that the two companies could collaborate on a "smart watch" although he acknowledged that the company was working on other "smart devices."

The "Re" camera, which can be controlled remotely from an Android or Apple phone, represents one effort to branch out beyond phones. Given that the cylinder-shaped device is waterproof and is highly portable, it could be seen as a potential competitor to GoPro Inc cameras.

Chang said that was the wrong comparison since GoPro cameras are specifically aimed at "extreme" sports while the Re, which will sell for $199 in the United States, is aimed at everyday use.

He refused to be drawn on whether the Re camera, or the Desire EYE mobile phone, which features 13 megapixel front and rear cameras, would contribute more to the company's bottom line, or provide revenue targets for either product. (Reporting by Christian Plumb; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)

Released: 2014-10-12T00:37:40.000Z

Document LBA0000020141009eaa9000jh


 5 Things to Read Today: Stocks Fall Sharply, Hong Kong Protest Talks Called Off, and More
WSJ Blogs, 15:06, 9 October 2014, 593 words, (English)
#1: Stocks Take a Tumble
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 300 points on Thursday. This reversed the gains made in Wednesday¡¦s rally and put?U.S. stocks on course for their most-volatile stretch since 2011 amid growing ...
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa9006pp



Google wins bid on which court to fight Rockstar over patents

246 words
9 October 2014
11:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

WASHINGTON, Oct 9 (Reuters) - Google Inc will fight patent holder Rockstar Consortium in a California court instead of a Texas court that lawyers consider more friendly toward plaintiffs.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on Thursday ordered proceedings stayed in Texas over whether handsets made by Samsung Electronics, HTC Corp , AsuSTEK Computer, LG Electronics and ZTE Corp infringed on Rockstar's patents because they used Google's Android operating system.

Rockstar had filed the lawsuits in a Texas federal court, which is generally viewed as a friendly forum for patent owners. Google counter punched, filing a lawsuit in northern California in which it asked a judge to rule that devices using the Android platform had not infringed the patents cited by Rockstar.

The overlaps led the appeals court to rule that the issue should be decided first in California.

"It is clear that there was no need to proceed with the five Texas actions because the one California action may suffice," the court said. "The record strongly suggests that there will be substantial similarity involving the infringement and invalidity issues in all the suits."

Rockstar, which counts Apple Inc as an investor, outbid Google and paid $4.5 billion for thousands of former Nortel Network Corp patents as the networking products supplier went bankrupt in 2011. (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Grant McCool) 

Released: 2014-10-9T17:48:17.000Z

Document LBA0000020141009eaa900k5c


 Google wins bid on which court to fight Rockstar over patents
Reuters, 11:48, 9 October 2014, 335 words, (English)
WASHINGTON Oct 9 (Reuters) - Google Inc will fight patent holder Rockstar Consortium in a California court instead of a Texas court that lawyers consider more friendly toward plaintiffs.
Document WCLBA00020141009eaa90050q

 The Morning Download: Critical Infrastructure at Risk Because of Careless Exposure to Internet
CIO Report, 07:00, 9 October 2014, 2666 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141009eaa900001



WSJ.D Technology: HTC Takes New Look at Itself With Selfie Camera

By Eva Dou   
637 words
9 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

TAIPEI -- While working on a product road map for smartphone maker HTC Corp. earlier this year, company Vice President Jerry Hsiao did some research.

"British women spend a month of their lives taking selfies," read an article from the British tabloid the Daily Mail that Mr. Hsiao selected for a PowerPoint slideshow highlighting his findings.

While Mr. Hsiao had included the article jokingly in a presentation this week about new products from the Taiwanese company, the observation holds true that people today are often endlessly fascinated with their own images refracted through high-tech gadgets. And long-suffering HTC is hoping that tendency will help it engineer a turnaround.

On Wednesday in New York, HTC, once the world's top smartphone maker by volume in 2011, launched a waterproof action camera and software for taking selfie photos, a departure from its usual emphasis on mobile-phone hardware. HTC also unveiled a selfie-focused smartphone to bolster the company's midprice Desire line.

It is a strategic change that the company hopes will help it reverse three years of falling sales. Last year, HTC fell out of the world's top 10 smartphone brands by shipments amid branding weakness and strong competition from Samsung Electronics Co. of South Korea in the high-end market and Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi in the low-cost segment. This month, the company said its third-quarter revenue fell 11% to 41.86 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$1.37 billion), compared with NT$47 billion a year earlier, despite returning to a net profit largely on cost cuts.

Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said in an interview that the company hopes its new products will help it return to sales growth. HTC's sales have fallen year-over-year for the past 12 quarters.

HTC's $199 Re Camera is a slim tube-shaped camera that can be clipped to a backpack, mounted on a bicycle or taken underwater. It is the company's first major venture outside smartphones since its launch of a tablet computer three years ago, and will be sold on Amazon.com and through other retailers. The camera weighs about 2.5 ounces.

Chairwoman Cher Wang has blamed marketing weakness for HTC's decline. Its third marketing chief in two years left HTC this fall, after an advertising campaign with actor Robert Downey Jr. failed to stem the company's sales slide.

In an interview, Ms. Wang said HTC is looking to invest its marketing dollars more effectively. "The most important thing is to make the end-user love you," she said.

The smartphone maker released its Zoe slideshow app free for devices powered by Google Inc.'s Android software and Apple Inc.'s iOS. Its new selfie app, HTC Eye, offers voice-activated photo-taking and a video-chat feature that keeps a subject's face centered in the screen even if the person is walking around. The company plans to eventually make the selfie app available free of charge for non-HTC users.

HTC plans to offer the new smartphone, called Desire Eye, through AT&T Inc. later this month. Unsubsidized, the smartphone would cost between US$450 and US$500, Mr. Chang said. It comes with 13-megapixel cameras on both the front and rear and has a 5.2-inch screen.

A number of competitors await HTC in the selfie-smartphone niche. Samsung, Sony Corp. of Japan and others have also rolled out smartphones with features intended to make it easier to take and edit selfie photos.

With the Re camera, HTC will have to vie against other action-camera makers, such as GoPro Inc. of San Mateo, Calif.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141009eaa90001r




Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance

281 words
9 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
2
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Shanghai Chaori, which this year became the first Chinese company to default on its domestic corporate bonds, plans to bring in a new controlling shareholder and two bond guarantors.

---

Dalian Wanda plans to set up an annual fund to lure movie producers to a multibillion-dollar studio project in China.

---

HTC launched a waterproof camera for taking selfies, a departure from the Taiwan firm's focus on mobile-phone hardware.

---

London Mining's shares closed 76% lower after the Sierra Leone-focused miner warned its shares would likely be worthless as it struggles with weak iron-ore prices and the Ebola outbreak.

---

Yum Brands said its sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter at restaurants open more than a year, hurt by the latest scare about food safety in the country.

---

A new class of car has been born in India from the unique aspirations of the country's consumers and a tax loophole.

---

The number of U.S. venture-capital-backed firms with a valuation of $1 billion or more has hit 49, the highest on record, as many find private funding readily available and see no rush to go public.

---

Apple said it was surprised by the bankruptcy filing this week by one of its sapphire partners, GT Advanced.

---

IKEA is making a push into the insurance market, rolling out trial sales of a range of policies within the next few weeks.

---

The U.K. Court of Appeal found in favor of the London Metal Exchange, but a monthslong dispute with Rusal over the storage of aluminum may continue.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

1102

Document AWSJ000020141008eaa900019




Asia
What¡¦s News¡X

398 words
8 October 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Business & Finance

Shanghai Chaori, which this year became the first Chinese company to default on its domestic corporate bonds, plans to bring in a new controlling shareholder and two bond guarantors.

Dalian Wanda plans to set up an annual fund to lure movie producers to a multibillion-dollar studio project in China.

HTC launched a waterproof camera for taking selfies, a departure from the Taiwan firm¡¦s focus on mobile-phone hardware.

London Mining¡¦s shares closed 76% lower after the Sierra Leone-focused miner warned its shares would likely be worthless as it struggles with weak iron-ore prices and the Ebola outbreak.

Yum Brands said its sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter at restaurants open more than a year, hurt by the latest scare about food safety in the country.

A new class of car has been born in India from the unique aspirations of the country¡¦s consumers and a tax loophole.

The number of U.S. venture-capital-backed firms with a valuation of $1 billion or more has hit 49, the highest on record, as many find private funding readily available and see no rush to go public.

Apple said it was surprised by the bankruptcy filing this week by one of its sapphire partners, GT Advanced.

IKEA is making a push into the insurance market, rolling out trial sales of a range of policies within the next few weeks.

The U.K. Court of Appeal found in favor of the London Metal Exchange, but a monthslong dispute with Russian aluminum producer Rusal over the storage of aluminum bars may yet continue.

World-Wide

Security forces from India and Pakistan traded mortar and small-arms fire, forcing thousands to flee amid a dayslong outbreak of cross-border violence that is among the worst in a decade.

The Spanish nursing aide infected with Ebola thinks she may have caught it by touching her face with a gloved hand while removing safety garments, a doctor said.

Hundreds of people have been killed in eastern Ukraine since a cease-fire was signed Sept. 5, bringing the death toll from the six-month-old conflict to more than 3,500, the U.N. said.

An earthquake that struck in China¡¦s Yunnan province late Tuesday killed at least one person and damaged buildings, while aftershocks continued in the area.

Document WSJO000020141008eaa9006y1


 HTC Joins Action-Camera Market
Wall Street Journal Video, 8 October 2014, 557 words, (English)
Summary: HTC introduced a waterproof camera for taking selfie photos. The WSJ's Eva Dou has more details.
Facing stiff competition in the handset market. Taiwanese Smartphone maker ATC is venturing into new product areas welcome to Asia ...
Document MMSAJB0020141008eaa8000rt

 HTC Focuses on Images with Desire Eye Phone and Re Camera
WSJ Blogs, 15:45, 8 October 2014, 760 words, By Nathan Olivarez-Giles, (English)
HTC is hoping that a focus on photos and video will lure in consumers this holiday season. On Wednesday, HTC introduced the Desire Eye, a smartphone with a 13-megapixel front-facing camera for high-quality selfies, and the Re, a camera ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8006el

 Q&A: HTC Executives on Move Beyond Smartphones
WSJ Blogs, 15:55, 8 October 2014, 711 words, By Eva Dou and Yun-Hee Kim, (English)
After three years of sales decline, Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC is venturing beyond its core smartphone business as it seeks a turnaround. The company launched a waterproof action camera, the $199 Re Camera, along with new selfie-taking ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8006hd



Asia
What¡¦s News¡X

434 words
5 October 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Business & Finance

Hewlett-Packard plans to break in two, separating its PC and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations, people familiar with the matter said. It could announce the move as early as Monday.

Discord at OPEC is turning into a price war, loosening the cartel¡¦s grip on the oil market and exacerbating a recent steep selloff.

Yahoo plans to reinvest a small portion of the cash it made from an early bet on Alibaba in another fast-growing startup: Snapchat.

Samsung is taking cues from Silicon Valley, acting more quickly with acquisitions as it ventures into new business areas such as content and services.

Google¡¦s secretive advanced-projects lab is developing a display composed of smaller screens that plug together like Legos to create a seamless image.

HTC said it was profitable for a second consecutive quarter, but the company continued a three-year revenue decline as competition from low-price Chinese phone makers remains fierce.

A cyberattack on J.P. Morgan Chase compromised the personal information for 76 million households. Two state attorneys general in the U.S. are looking at how the bank alerted customers.

National Australia Bank aims to sell a minority stake in its U.S. banking operation through an initial public offering.

China¡¦s cabinet said that Beijing won¡¦t bail out local governments when they fail to repay their debts and will impose ceilings on their borrowing.

The head of Citigroup¡¦s Mexican unit, Grupo Financiero Banamex, resigned, the latest casualty of the bank¡¦s struggles with alleged fraud by a big borrower.

World-Wide

An All Nippon Airways co-pilot who accidentally put his plane into a violent dive and roll in 2011 came closer to losing control of it than previously believed, data released by investigators showed.

Pakistan is struggling to fight a surge in polio cases, as it reported 202 children paralyzed this year, the highest number of cases since the 199 recorded in 2000.

U.S. officials said they remain confident the country won¡¦t suffer a widespread Ebola outbreak.

U.K. leader Cameron decried the beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning, which came days after Parliament authorized military action against Islamic State.

Thai police said they arrested two migrant workers from Myanmar in the killings of two British tourists last month and said DNA samples from the workers match those taken from the female victim.

Brazilians headed to the polls, capping the first round of an unpredictable and often acrimonious presidential campaign. Polls show President Rousseff leading her two main rivals. 

Document WSJO000020141005eaa60030d


 Hewlett Packard to Split Into Two Companies
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 6 October 2014, 773 words, (English)
Summary: HP plans to split into two companies; Facebook could create health apps; Samsung investing in a new chip plant and new iPads could be announced soon. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories and more.
Document MMSAJW0020141006eaa600001



HTC stock jumps on market-beating Q3 profit

71 words
5 October 2014
20:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Shares of smartphone maker HTC rose almost 2 percent on Monday as investor sentiment was buoyed by its latest quarterly profit that topped market expectations.

At the opening bell, HTC was up 1.9 percent, outpacing the main index's 0.13 percent gain. (Reporting by Faith Hung; Editing by Prateek Chatterjee)

Released: 2014-10-9T01:09:13.000Z

Document LBA0000020141006eaa6000m9




Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance

280 words
6 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
2
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Hewlett-Packard plans to break in two, separating its PC and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations, people familiar with the matter said. It could announce the move as early as Monday.

---

Discord at OPEC is turning into a price war, loosening the cartel's grip on the oil market and exacerbating a recent steep selloff.

---

Yahoo plans to reinvest a small portion of the cash it made from an early bet on Alibaba in another fast-growing startup: Snapchat.

---

Samsung is taking cues from Silicon Valley, acting more quickly with acquisitions as it ventures into new business areas such as content and services.

---

Google's secretive advanced-projects lab is developing a display composed of smaller screens that plug together like Legos to create a seamless image.

---

HTC said it was profitable for a second consecutive quarter, but the company continued a three-year revenue decline as competition from low-price Chinese phone makers remains fierce.

---

A cyberattack on J.P. Morgan Chase compromised the personal information for 76 million households. Two state attorneys general in the U.S. are looking at how the bank alerted customers.

---

National Australia Bank aims to sell a minority stake in its U.S. banking operation through an initial public offering.

---

China's cabinet said that Beijing won't bail out local governments when they fail to repay their debts and will impose ceilings on their borrowing.

---

The head of Citigroup's Mexican unit, Grupo Financiero Banamex, resigned, the latest casualty of the bank's struggles with alleged fraud by a big borrower.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141005eaa600008


 Roku Can Now Mirror Phone, PC and Tablet Screens
WSJ Blogs, 15:53, 3 October 2014, 304 words, By Nathan Olivarez-Giles, (English)
Screen mirroring¡Xgetting what's on your phone, tablet or laptop to appear on your TV¡Xis coming to Roku media players. On Thursday, the set-top-box company announced that it was testing mirroring in a beta for its Roku 3 and Roku Streaming ...
Document WCWSJB0020141003eaa300795

 HTC Q3 profit beats estimates as cost cuts offset weak sales
Reuters India, 08:42, 3 October 2014, 363 words, Michael Gold and Faith Hung, (English)
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp swung to better-than-expected profit in the third quarter from a heavy loss a year earlier, as cost cuts helped it offset the impact of still-sluggish sales.
Document WC45421020141003eaa30001m

 Making Your Home Smarter
RealEstateJournal, 05:51, 3 October 2014, 2093 words, Viktor Koen, (English)
IT¡¦S NOT AN EXAGGERATION to say that the Dyson DC44 vacuum made me a better person. Up until 2012, vacuums were dreaded appliances that I only brought out when my floors got filthy enough to require serious attention. The cordless DC44 ...
Document WC86565020141003eaa30000a



HTC Q3 profit beats estimates as cost cuts take effect

119 words
3 October 2014
02:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp said on Friday it earned T$640 million ($21 million) in unaudited net profit during its third quarter, as cost reductions helped pull the smartphone maker back into the black after a bleak 2013.

This year's July-September profit easily beat a T$216.23 million mean estimate of 13 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.

HTC said during its last quarterly earnings briefing that improved efficiency in its sales and marketing operations would help the company maintain profitability in July-September. (Reporting by Michael Gold and Faith Hung; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) 

Released: 2014-10-3T08:49:56.000Z

Document LBA0000020141003eaa3008c8




Tech
HTC Posts Second Straight Quarterly Profit; Sales Continue to Slide as Smartphone Maker Loses Market Share to Apple and Low-Cost Chinese Competitors

By Eva Dou and Jenny W. Hsu 
374 words
2 October 2014
23:10
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. said Friday it was profitable for a second consecutive quarter, but the company continued a three-year revenue decline as competition from low-priced Chinese phone makers remains fierce.

The Taiwanese smartphone maker has spent the past year cutting costs and diversifying from its high-end flagship line, after falling into the red last year for the first time since its public listing in 2002.

While the cost cuts have returned HTC to a narrow profit, it has yet to find a way to reverse the slide in sales. HTC has lost share to market leaders like Apple Inc. and to rapidly growing low-cost Chinese rivals like Xiaomi.

The company has rolled out more midtier phones this year, but those new devices have yet to offset the decline in sales of its flagship HTC One line.

HTC executives have said they plan to expand into other product categories this year to try to revive the business. The company sent invitations for a launch event on Oct. 8, with a teaser video that suggests it will release an action camera that can be used while playing sports or swimming.

The company is also joining with Google Inc. to release a Nexus tablet, which will be HTC¡¦s first tablet in three years, according to people familiar with the matter. These new devices could help offset declining sales in HTC¡¦s smartphone business, analysts say.

HTC said its preliminary third-quarter earnings were 640 million New Taiwan dollars (US$21 million), above analyst expectations of NT$556.8 million, according to Thomson One Analytics. That compares with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion in the year-earlier quarter.

In the quarter ended Sept. 30, HTC posted NT$41.86 billion in revenue, down from NT$47 billion in the year-earlier quarter.

In the fourth quarter, HTC will face strong competition from Apple, which announced on Sept. 22 it sold a record 10 million of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones in their first weekend of sales.

Document WSJO000020141003eaa3001ur


 HTC Q3 profit beats estimates as cost cuts take effect
Reuters, 02:49, 3 October 2014, 207 words, (English)
TAIPEI Oct 3 (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp said on Friday it earned T$640 million ($21 million) in unaudited net profit during its third quarter, as cost reductions helped pull the smartphone maker back into the black ...
Document WCLBA00020141003eaa3002mj



BUZZ-WiLan Inc: Loses patent case against Apple

72 words
1 October 2014
17:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

** Canadian patent licensing company's U.S.-listed shares down 12 pct at $3.08 after market

** Company says U.S. judge ruled in favor of Apple Inc in a patent infringement lawsuit brought by WiLan in December 2012

** HTC Corp and Sierra Wireless Inc, also accused by WiLan, had signed licensing deals to settle the dispute

Released: 2014-10-4T22:26:42.000Z

Document LBA0000020141001eaa100rut




WiLan says loses LTE patent case against Apple

235 words
1 October 2014
15:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TORONTO, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Canadian patent licensing company WiLan Inc on Wednesday said a U.S. judge had ruled in favour of Apple Inc in a litigation case against it.

"WiLan has been advised that Judge Dana M. Sabraw has issued a ruling today that grants Apple's motion for summary judgment," the company said in a statement, referring to Apple's move to have two patent infringement claims relating to LTE wireless telecom technologies ruled invalid and not infringed.

WiLan said it is currently reviewing the ruling from the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California with its trial counsel, and said it has a separate case against Apple in the same court for five other LTE patent infringement claims.

It launched the litigation in December 2012 against Apple, HTC Corp and Sierra Wireless Inc, with the latter pair signing licensing deals to settle the dispute.

Shares in the company last traded down 2.7 percent at C$3.93 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.

WiLan, whose primary business is acquiring ownership of intellectual property and then seeking to charge fees to companies that make use of it, plunged late last year after a jury ruled that Apple had not infringed one of its patents in another case. (Reporting by Alastair Sharp; editing by Andrew Hay) 

Released: 2014-10-1T21:56:31.000Z

Document LBA0000020141001eaa100pjl




HTC Hints at Waterproof Camera

By Eva Dou   
265 words
1 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

HTC Corp. is answering the question investors have asked for several years: Can you give us something new?

While HTC's smartphones have garnered critical plaudits, it hasn't been enough for it to battle the marketing power of Samsung Electronics Co. The smartphone-focused Taiwanese firm's sales have continued to slide, despite continued rollouts of highly rated smartphones.

HTC this week released a video teasing what is apparently a waterproof camera to be launched Oct. 8. The video is shot from the camera's perspective and doesn't show the camera itself, but the footage suggests it can be attached to a person while playing sports, zoom in for selfies and go underwater.

The device presents a hope to investors for an HTC comeback after three years of sliding sales and falling smartphone market share. It also comes as HTC is looking for ways to diversify beyond smartphones, such as plans to launch its first tablet since 2011.

HTC will be going up against several established action-camera vendors, such as GoPro, which began selling its cameras in 2004. However, while the GoPro looks somewhat like a traditional camera, HTC's may stand apart with a sleek, periscope-like design, according to unverified pictures circulating online.

Bloomberg reported in September that HTC was working on a waterproof camera to challenge GoPro.

Market research firm Futuresource Consulting estimates that the action camera market will grow to nine million units in 2018 from almost five million units last year.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141001eaa10000h




INDIA PRESS-HTC eyes bigger pie of Indian smartphone market - Business Standard

43 words
30 September 2014
22:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(http://bit.ly/1rsB8Rs)

Note: Reuters has not verified this story and does not vouch for its accuracy. (Compiled by Derek Francis in Bangalore) 

Released: 2014-10-1T04:43:05.000Z

Document LBA0000020141001eaa10033h


 INDIA PRESS-HTC eyes bigger pie of Indian smartphone market - Business Standard
Reuters, 22:43, 30 September 2014, 108 words, (English)
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual ...
Document WCLBA00020141001eaa10012y



PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
Pack New GoPro For Next Vacation?

By Geoffrey A. Fowler   
1,238 words
30 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

GoPro Inc., the company known for rugged little cameras used by extreme surfers and snowboarders, has new models that might appeal to a more timid demographic.

In stores Oct. 5, the first new cameras since GoPro's blockbuster summer initial public offering aren't big reinventions. They're subtle but important improvements to help the less extreme among us create the whoa-check-that-out perspectives that made GoPro a cultural phenomenon.

One is a $400 version called Hero4 Silver that adds a touch screen, finally making GoPro as easy to use as normal cameras. Another is a new version of its palm-size camera that's cheap enough -- $130 -- to lose or break on vacation. (A third, the $500 Hero4 Black, will appeal to pros, with a faster processor for shooting video at four times the resolution of high definition.)

I've had a chance to dangle two of the new GoPros out of a cable car, clamp them to a go-kart, and strap them to a "selfie stick" -- among other vacationing challenges -- and the experience was eye-opening. The cameras suffer from a short 2.5-hour battery life, but GoPro is now worth considering as the go-anywhere camera for the rest of us.

Don't we have smartphones for that? Those cameras have gotten remarkably good at taking photos and video, and are usually close at hand to capture a moment. But GoPros can do two things most smartphones can't: First, you can stick them places a phone might not fit, or you might not like. Second, GoPros have a 170 degree wide-angle lens that makes it easy to capture most situations in focus.

Here's the problem: Nobody really wants to watch our boring vacation videos. Does a GoPro help produce footage of a less thrill-seeking life worthy of Facebook and YouTube?

To answer, I spent last Thursday as a tourist in my town of San Francisco, with one GoPro in my hand and another strapped to my head. The day's events were planned by GoPro. Our itinerary included riding a cable car and go-karts, taking a boat ride around San Francisco Bay, and trampolining -- yes, trampolining -- by the Golden Gate Bridge. I continued testing the cameras through the weekend, capturing more ordinary moments: a mountain hike, a drive around town and a sunset. Even then, I found myself taking shots with the GoPros I couldn't -- or just hadn't -- with other cameras.

GoPro isn't the only small camera on the market; Sony and Garmin make models that are only a tad larger, and smartphone maker HTC has hinted at a coming waterproof camera.

What makes GoPros so effective is solid imaging technology in a tiny package that doesn't feel precious. You accessorize them with a collection of straps and clamping doodads that encourage -- actually, demand -- experimentation, like the "Chesty" chest mount and "Fetch" dog-harness mount. There's even a line of mounts for guitars and drums.

The new cameras tout improved sensors and processors that mean better shots and more creative options.

Since the top-model Hero4 Black shoots 4K video at 30 frames a second, I used it to zoom in on the Golden Gate Bridge when I couldn't get close enough to fill the frame. (Warning: the video files it produces at that resolution are gargantuan -- five minutes takes up more than two gigabytes on a storage card, sold separately.)

The image quality isn't as professional as a digital SLR camera but it is impressive for such a portable package. In my tests on a swaying boat at night, the Hero4 Silver's wide-angle lens picked up clouds above a cityscape more dramatically than the iPhone 6 but wasn't as good at capturing neon signs. I also made a cool time-lapse video of a sunset by making the GoPro take a 12-megapixel photo twice a minute over a few hours; both Hero4 models can take up to 30 of those a second.

For video, you're able to shoot up to 120 frames a second, letting you use GoPro's editing software to slow down the action and make anyone look like a character from "The Matrix." A button lets you tag interesting moments that you want to find quickly when it comes time to edit. I wish GoPros also had GPS technology so I could tag locations, too.

Previous models may have helped extreme athletes capture insane video but they didn't have LCD screens and were cumbersome to use. The addition of a display to the Hero4 Silver makes it much more user friendly. Controlling the camera from the screen on the back means you can preview shots, and get less up-the-nose footage of you fiddling with button s while the camera is rolling. (GoPro has previously sold a $70 add-on touchscreen, but it added bulk to the camera.)

Alas, the built-in screen is only on the new Hero4 Silver model. The Hero and Hero4 Black have streamlined menus but still must be controlled with three buttons and a dim black-and-gray screen on the front. I recommend the Silver model for anyone but the pros.

My biggest reservation is that both Hero4 cameras I tested still have too-short battery lives -- about 2.5 hours. (I burned through three or four batteries in a day of heavy usage.) The screen on the Silver model is an even further tax; anyone thinking about taking one on vacation will want to carry a few battery backups.

I wasn't able to evaluate one other important factor: how easy it is to get footage from the new GoPros online. GoPros have wireless connections, and the company is building a new version of its smartphone app that will let you control your camera, view what you've taken, and share photos via Instagram and Facebook. I couldn't test it -- the app isn't finished -- but it was clear from a brief demo that using the app will be yet another drain the camera's lightweight battery. To get video and photos online, I used GoPro Studio on my computer. GoPro's editing software is powerful but lacks a simple way to post to the Internet. My time with the cameras did produce Instagram-worthy footage. But could I have done the same thing without a GoPro if I put my mind to it?

When I was crossing San Francisco's Bay Bridge on Saturday, I attached a GoPro to one of its "3-Way" stick mounts, and poked it out of my passenger window like a periscope. On such a windy bridge, this felt unwise at first, but the driver of a car next to me flashed me a broad smile that read, "Righteous, dude."

The camera stayed in its mount and captured the whole span. It's an amazing video, especially when sped up. I've always dreamed of taking that shot but never would have done it with my phone or, God forbid, fancy DSLR. Having a GoPro gave me the excuse to go out and try more interesting shots, which is ultimately the key to less-boring footage.

---

Follow Geoffrey A. Fowler on Twitter @geoffreyfowler

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140930ea9u0001m




Tech
Can GoPro Hero4 Make You a Vacation Hero?; New Line of Cameras Brings Extreme Photography Down to Earth, but Stock Up on Batteries

By Geoffrey A. Fowler 
1,294 words
29 September 2014
03:13
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

GoPro Inc., the company known for rugged little cameras used by extreme surfers and snowboarders, has new models that might appeal to a more timid demographic.

In stores Oct. 5, the first new cameras since GoPro¡¦s blockbuster summer initial public offering aren¡¦t big reinventions. They¡¦re subtle but important improvements to help the less extreme among us create the whoa-check-that-out perspectives that made GoPro a cultural phenomenon.

One is a $400 version called Hero4 Silver that adds a touch screen, finally making GoPro as easy to use as normal cameras. Another is a new version of its palm-size camera that¡¦s cheap enough¡X$130¡Xto lose or break on vacation. (A third, the $500 Hero4 Black, will appeal to pros, with a faster processor for shooting video at four times the resolution of high definition.)

I¡¦ve had a chance to dangle two of the new GoPros out of a cable car, clamp them to a go-kart, and strap them to a ¡§selfie stick¡¨¡Xamong other vacationing challenges¡Xand the experience was eye-opening. The cameras suffer from a short 2.5-hour battery life, but GoPro is now worth considering as the go-anywhere camera for the rest of us.

Don¡¦t we have smartphones for that? Those cameras have gotten remarkably good at taking photos and video, and are usually close at hand to capture a moment. But GoPros can do two things most smartphones can¡¦t: First, you can stick them places a phone might not fit, or you might not like. Second, GoPros have a 170 degree wide-angle lens that makes it easy to capture most situations in focus.

Here¡¦s the problem: Nobody really wants to watch our boring vacation videos. Does a GoPro help produce footage of a less thrill-seeking life that is worthy of Facebook and YouTube?

To answer, I spent last Thursday as a tourist in my town of San Francisco, with one GoPro in my hand and another strapped to my head. The day¡¦s events were planned by GoPro for training but all the footage you see in this review is my own. Our itinerary included riding a cable car and go-karts, taking a boat ride around San Francisco Bay, and trampolining¡Xyes, trampolining¡Xby the Golden Gate Bridge. I continued testing the cameras through the weekend, capturing more ordinary moments: a mountain hike, a drive around town and a sunset. Even then, I found myself taking shots with the GoPros I couldn¡¦t¡Xor just hadn¡¦t¡Xwith other cameras.

GoPro isn¡¦t the only small camera on the market; Sony and Garmin make models that are only a tad larger, and smartphone maker HTC has hinted at a coming waterproof camera.

What makes GoPros so effective is solid imaging technology in a tiny package that doesn¡¦t feel precious. You accessorize them with a collection of straps and clamping doodads that encourage¡Xactually, demand¡Xexperimentation, like the ¡§Chesty¡¨ chest mount and ¡§Fetch¡¨ dog-harness mount. There¡¦s even a line of mounts for guitars and drums.

The new cameras tout improved sensors and processors that mean better shots and more creative options.

Since the top-model Hero4 Black shoots 4K video at 30 frames a second, I used it to zoom in on the Golden Gate Bridge when I couldn¡¦t get close enough to fill the frame. (Warning: the video files it produces at that resolution are gargantuan¡Xfive minutes takes up more than two gigabytes on a storage card, sold separately.)

The image quality isn¡¦t as professional as a digital SLR camera but it is impressive for such a portable package. In my tests on a swaying boat at night, the Hero4 Silver¡¦s wide-angle lens picked up clouds above a cityscape more dramatically than the iPhone 6 but wasn¡¦t as good at capturing neon signs. I also made a cool time-lapse video of a sunset by making the GoPro take a 12-megapixel photo twice a minute over a few hours; both Hero4 models can take up to 30 of those a second.

For video, you¡¦re able to shoot up to 120 frames a second¡Xthe number of still images that combine to create motion¡Xletting you use GoPro¡¦s editing software to slow down the action and make anyone look like a character from ¡§The Matrix.¡¨ (It helps if you have a trampoline handy.) A button lets you tag interesting moments that you want to find quickly when it comes time to edit. I wish GoPros also had GPS technology so I could tag locations, too.

Previous models may have helped extreme athletes capture insane video but they didn¡¦t have LCD screens and were cumbersome to use. The addition of a display to the Hero4 Silver makes it much more user friendly. Controlling the camera from the screen on the back means you can preview shots, and get less up-the-nose footage of you fiddling with button s while the camera is rolling. (GoPro has previously sold a $70 add-on touchscreen, but it added bulk to the camera.)

Alas, the built-in screen is only on the new Hero4 Silver model. The Hero and Hero4 Black have streamlined their menus but still must be controlled with three buttons and a dim black-and-gray screen on the front. I recommend the Silver model for anyone but the pros.

My biggest reservation is that both Hero4 cameras I tested still have too-short battery lives¡Xabout 2.5 hours. (I burned through three or four batteries in a day of heavy usage.) The screen on the Silver model is an even further tax; anyone thinking about taking one on vacation will want to carry a few battery backups, which cost $20.

I wasn¡¦t able to evaluate one other important factor: how easy it is to get footage from the new GoPros online. GoPros have wireless connections, and the company is building a new version of its smartphone app that will let you control your camera, view what you¡¦ve taken, and share photos via Instagram and Facebook. I couldn¡¦t test it¡Xthe app isn¡¦t finished¡Xbut it was clear from a brief demo that using the app will be yet another drain the camera¡¦s lightweight battery.

To get video and photos online, I used GoPro Studio on my computer. GoPro¡¦s editing software is powerful but lacks a simple way to post to the Internet.

My time with the cameras did produce Instagram-worthy footage. But could I have done the same thing without a GoPro if I put my mind to it?

When I was crossing San Francisco¡¦s Bay Bridge on Saturday, I attached a GoPro to one of its ¡§3-Way¡¨ stick mounts, and poked it out of my passenger window like a periscope. On such a windy bridge, this felt unwise at first, but the driver of a car next to me flashed me a broad smile that read, ¡§Righteous, dude.¡¨

The camera stayed in its mount and captured the whole span. It¡¦s an amazing video, especially when sped up. I¡¦ve always dreamed of taking that shot but never would have done it with my phone or, God forbid, fancy DSLR.

Having a GoPro gave me the excuse to go out and try more interesting shots, which is ultimately the key to less-boring footage.

¡XWrite to Geoffrey A. Fowler at Geoffrey.Fowler@wsj.com or follow him on Twitter @geoffreyfowler. 

Document WSJO000020140929ea9t002xo




RPT-Phoning 'home': what your mobile may be giving away

1,252 words
28 September 2014
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(Repeats article first published on Sunday. No changes to text.)

By Jeremy Wagstaff

SINGAPORE, Sept 28 (Reuters) - When popular Chinese handset maker Xiaomi Inc admitted that its devices were sending users' personal information back to a server in China, it prompted howls of protest and an investigation by Taiwan's government.

The affair has also drawn attention to just how little we know about what happens between our smartphone and the outside world. In short: it might be in your pocket, but you don't call the shots.

As long as a device is switched on, it could be communicating with at least three different masters: the company that built it, the telephone company it connects to, and the developers of any third party applications you installed on the device - or were pre-installed before you bought it.

All these companies could have programmed the device to send data 'back home' to them over a wireless or cellular network - with or without the user's knowledge or consent. In Xiaomi's case, as soon as a user booted up their device it started sending personal data 'back home'.

This, Xiaomi said, was to allow users to send SMS messages without having to pay operator charges by routing the messages through Xiaomi's servers. To do that, the company said, it needed to know the contents of users' address books.

"What Xiaomi did originally was clearly wrong: they were collecting your address book and sending it to themselves without you ever agreeing to it," said Mikko Hypponen, whose computer security company F-Secure helped uncover the problem. "What's more, it was sent unencrypted."

Xiaomi has said it since fixed the problem by seeking users' permission first, and only sending data over encrypted connections, he noted. 

              
              
              
              
INDUSTRY ISSUE
              
Xiaomi is by no means alone in grabbing data from your phone
as soon as you switch it on.
              


A cellular operator may collect data from you, ostensibly to improve how you set up your phone for the first time, says Bryce Boland, Asia Pacific chief technology officer at FireEye, an internet security firm. Handset makers, he said, may also be collecting information, from your location to how long it takes you to set up the phone.

"It's not that it's specific to any handset maker or telco," said Boland. "It's more of an industry problem, where organisations are taking steps to collect data they can use for a variety of purposes, which may be legitimate but potentially also have some privacy concerns."

Many carriers, for example, include in their terms of service the right to collect personal data about the device, computer and online activities - including what web sites users visit. One case study by Hewlett-Packard and Qosmos, a French internet security company, was able to track individual devices to, for example, identify how many Facebook messages a user sent. The goal: using all this data to pitch users highly personalized advertising.

But some users fear it's not just the carriers collecting such detailed data.

Three years ago, users were alarmed to hear that U.S. carriers pre-installed an app from a company called Carrier IQ that appeared to transmit personal data to the carrier.

Users filed a class-action lawsuit, not against the carriers but against handset makers including HTC Corp, Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics which, they say, used the software to go beyond collecting diagnostic data the carriers needed.

The suit alleges the handset firms used the Carrier IQ software to intercept private information for themselves, including recording users' email and text messages without their permission - data the users claim may also have been shared with third parties. The companies are contesting the case.

And then there are the apps that users install. Each requires your permission to be able to access data or functions on your device - the microphone, say, if you want that device to record audio, or locational data if you want it to provide suggestions about nearby restaurants.

SHEDDING SOME LIGHT

But it isn't always easy for a user to figure out just what information or functions are being accessed, what data is then being sent back to the developers' servers - and what happens to that data once it gets there. Bitdefender, a Romania-based antivirus manufacturer, found last year that one in three of Android smartphone apps upload personal information to "third party companies, without specifically letting you know."

Not only is this hidden from the user, it's often unrelated to the app's purpose.

Take for example, an Android app that turns your device into a torch by turning on all its lights - from the camera flash to the keyboard backlight. When users complained about it also sending location-based data, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission forced the app's Idaho-based developer to make clear the free app was also collecting data so it could target users with location-specific ads. Even so, the app has been installed more than 50 million times and has overwhelmingly positive user reviews.

While most concerns are about phones running Android, Apple Inc's devices aren't free from privacy concerns.

Carriers control the code on the SIM, for example, and this is one possible way to access data on the phone. And, despite stricter controls over apps in Apple's app store, FireEye's Boland says his company continues to find malicious apps for the iOS platform, and apps that send sensitive data without the user knowing. "The iPhone platform is more secure than the Android platform, but it's certainly not perfect," he said.

Apple says its iOS protects users' data by ensuring apps are digitally signed and verified by Apple's own security system.

BACK IN THE DRIVING SEAT

The problem, then, often isn't about whether handset makers, app developers and phone companies are grabbing data from your phone, but what kind of data, when, and for what.

"If we look at the content sent by many apps it's mindboggling how much is actually sent," said Boland. "It's impossible for someone to really know whether something is good or bad unless they know the context."

Handset makers need to be clear with users about what they're doing and why, said Carl Pei, director at OnePlus, a Shenzhen, China-based upstart rival to Xiaomi. OnePlus collects "anonymous statistical information" such as where a phone is activated, the model and the version of software that runs on it, Pei said, which helps them make better decisions about servicing customers and where to focus production.

Unlike Xiaomi, Pei said, OnePlus' servers are based in the United States, which in the light of recent privacy concerns, he said, "gives people greater peace of mind than having them based out of China."

That peace of mind may be elusive as long as there's money to be made, says David Rogers, who teaches mobile systems security at the University of Oxford and chairs the Device Security Group at the GSMA, a global mobile industry trade association.

"Users are often sacrificed to very poor security design and a lack of consideration for privacy," he said. "At the same time, taking user data is part of a profit model for many corporations so they don't make it easy for users to prevent what is essentially data theft." (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) 

Released: 2014-9-28T22:00:05.000Z

Document LBA0000020140928ea9s00j88




WEEKEND INVESTOR --- The New Basics: Tap to Pay? Read This First

By Charlie Wells   
863 words
27 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B8
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Technology companies want you to lose your wallet. The jury is still out on what this means for your money.

Apple says it sold over 10 million units of its latest iPhone last weekend. That means over 10 million devices will be compatible with the company's Apple Pay, a service launching in October that will let users forgo cash or plastic and pay merchants with the tap of a phone. The service is linked to a credit or debit card.

Apple's entry is just the latest in an expanding galaxy of mobile-payment systems with tap-to-pay capabilities.

Over the past decade, companies such as Samsung Electronics, Google and HTC, along with credit-card networks MasterCard and Visa, have dabbled in such systems using near-field communication, or NFC, which allows devices like phones and receivers at the cash register to transmit information through a narrow radio frequency.

This year, payments using NFC will double to $8.2 billion, according to market researcher Gartner. Still, that is just 2.5% of total mobile payments, a broader term that refers to the many different types of financial transactions that can be made using mobile devices.

Coffee retailer Starbucks started letting customers pay with their phones in 2011, and now processes an average of six million U.S. mobile transactions a week, with 15% of all U.S. transactions at Starbucks made with a mobile device -- up from 10% last year -- according to a spokeswoman.

The transactions are linked to a Starbucks prepaid card, which is reloadable from a credit- or debit-card account.

Other retailers will need to follow suit in order for the technology to take off, says Jim DuBoyce, a payment specialist at W. Capra Consulting Group in Chicago. "Mobile payment on its own doesn't seem to have an appeal to the customer," he says. "The mobile plus loyalty plus rewards relationship does."

Mary Liz Curtin, a 60-year-old small-business owner in Clawson, Mich., is an iPhone user and wants to upgrade to an iPhone 6. She thinks she would like to use Apple Pay, especially if it would prevent her from digging around her purse for loyalty cards when it comes time to pay. Ms. Curtin says she has taken to calling such cards "annoyalty cards."

Apple says that its new payment system will offer security as well as convenience over the decades-old magnetic-stripe card technology. For one thing, Apple Pay will require a fingerprint authentication for payments to be made.

Another reason, says Allen Weinberg, managing partner and co-founder of Glenbrook, a payments-industry consulting and research firm: Apple Pay won't store actual credit- or debit-card numbers on phones. And for each transaction, the technology will create a unique number that can be used only once, he says.

If a digital interloper gets this information after the transaction, it will be virtually useless.

Experts say that before using a mobile payment system, consumers should make sure they are familiar with and able to use the service's security functions.

Google Wallet, for example, requires anyone using a phone to make a payment to type in an extra PIN, and allows users who have lost their phones to deactivate the payment feature.

Although technology companies have been quick to ensure that convenience stores, large pharmacies and fast-food restaurants accept mobile payment, be careful about tapping to pay for small, regular purchases, says Paul Golden, a spokesman at the National Endowment for Financial Education.

"If you buy the same $4.99 latte every day, it's hard to monitor and scrutinize the amount," he says. It could get difficult to differentiate between your own purchases, a glitch or foul play.

While Silicon Valley firms tout the simplicity of mobile wallets, the relationships they keep with banks and credit-card companies may be complicated, Mr. Golden says.

He recommends checking with your card issuer to make sure you know if the limits and liability are the same for tap-to-pay consumers, for example.

Using mobile payments alone won't change your credit score, says Anthony Sprauve, senior consumer-credit specialist at credit-scoring firm Fair Isaac. But he cautions that consumers should take advantage of tools like Mint.com that make it easier to track spending on mobile devices to keep on top of their spending.

Barry Saik, senior vice president of the consumer-ecosystem group at Mint parent company Intuit, says that debit cards tend to send information to the app faster than credit cards, and that of credit cards, American Express cards are the fastest.

Depending on the network and bank, it can take from 30 seconds to up to a day for your spending information to reach Mint, he says. The closer to real-time the information hits, the better you can track and control your spending.

For her part, Ms. Curtin says, there really is one lesson about credit cards that will likely continue to ring true: "Pay them off in full every month."

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140927ea9r0001i




BUZZ-GoPro: The view from above

222 words
26 September 2014
08:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

** Pent-up demand for action cameras may continue to propel the stock of GoPro to even dizzier heights.

** Stock is retreating from Thursday's all-time record but has snapped back sharply from the day's lows. Now down just over 2 pct.

** Since the $427 million June IPO the company's stock has defied gravity and is up 160%. Up more than 60% this month.

** Yahoo Finance citing that the company is rumored to be launching a new version of its action camera in time for holiday shopping season has helped push the stock higher.

** Bloomberg reported on Sept 12 that Taiwan-based HTC Corp is developing its first camera, a waterproof model. (http://bloom.bg/1uMhX2E)

** Talk in the market that a hedge fund in trouble had to rush to cover short positions cited as one reason for this month's surge.

** Short interest in the stock last stood at 6.7% according to latest available data, up 33% since the start of the month.

** JPM revised PT this morning to $54 from $51 and maintains neutral rating. Analysts' average PT remains well below current levels.

** GoPro now worth almost $10 billion vs Nikon's $5.9 market value. (Messaging: lance.tupper.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net)

Released: 2014-9-29T13:52:50.000Z

Document LBA0000020140926ea9q00hfv


 Apple Gets Bent
MoneyBeat, 25 September 2014, 412 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Associated Press</dd> ...
Document BC08551020140925ea9p000dx

 Apple Gets Bent
WSJ Blogs, 13:41, 25 September 2014, 380 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Apple's reputation - and stock - is getting bent this week.
For years, Apple's value proposition has been simple: It made better products. Its hardware and software was superior aesthetically, and operationally. That's why Apple's been able ...
Document WCWSJB0020140925ea9p005k1

 iPhone 6 Plus Bending? What¡¦s to Be Done?
The Wall Street Journal WSJ Lunchbreak, 24 September 2014, 871 words, (English)
Summary: Some iPhone users are reporting that the slim iPhone 6 Plus bends with use. Endpoint Technologies founder and president Roger Kay discusses with Tanya Rivero. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAWI0020140924ea9o00001

 Can Alibaba Keep Growing?
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 22 September 2014, 1296 words, (English)
Summary: What could determine whether Alibaba's IPO is really successful, BlackBerry's makeover may be working, How consumers are responding to the new iPhones, The release of Xbox One in China is being delayed. Hank Weisbecker reports.
Document MMSAJW0020140922ea9m00001



Google selects HTC for upcoming Nexus tablet: WSJ

156 words
22 September 2014
03:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.  

(Reuters) - Google Inc has selected HTC Corp to make its upcoming 9-inch Nexus tablet, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.

Google had been mulling HTC as a potential Nexus tablet partner since last year and HTC engineers have been flying to the Googleplex in Mountain View in recent months to work on the project, the report said.

Google's decision to pick HTC reflects its long-term strategy of building a broad base of partners from device to device to prevent any one manufacturer from gaining a monopoly, the report said.

That may also be one of the reasons why Google chose HTC over bigger rivals Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, maker of the Nexus 10 tablet.

Google and HTC declined to comment on the report.

(Reporting by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) 

Released: 2014-9-22T08:56:29.000Z

Document LBA0000020140922ea9m005v5


 UPDATE 1-Google selects HTC for upcoming Nexus tablet - WSJ
Reuters, 03:53, 22 September 2014, 252 words, (English)
Sept 22 (Reuters) - Google Inc has selected HTC Corp to make its upcoming 9-inch Nexus tablet, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.
Document WCLBA00020140922ea9m002s5



UPDATE 1-Market Chatter-Corporate finance press digest - Sept 22

321 words
22 September 2014
01:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(Adds item on Google Inc)

Sept 22 (Reuters) - The following corporate finance-related stories were reported by media:

* French low-cost telecom operator Iliad has set a mid-October deadline to decide whether to improve its bid for T-Mobile US or walk away as it faces resistance from seller Deutsche Telekom, several people familiar with the situation said.

* Exxon Mobil Corp has put its Torrance, California, refinery on the block, according to two people familiar with the matter, making it the latest big oil company to consider exiting the state amid tougher environmental standards.

* Data storage products maker EMC Corp held merger talks with rivals Dell Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co , the Wall Street Journal reported citing people familiar with the matter.

* Swiss private bank Julius Baer is interested in acquiring Coutts International, a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland , but will not get into a bidding war for the venerable British bank's overseas arm, a Swiss paper reported on Sunday.

* American Beacon Advisors Inc, a manager of mutual funds owned by buyout firms Pharos Capital Group LLC and TPG Capital LP, is exploring a sale that could value it at more than $600 million, including debt, according to people familiar with the matter.

* Citigroup Inc has short-listed several Japanese firms, including the country's second-largest lender, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc as buyers for its retail bank in the country, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. (http://on.wsj.com/1myFipN)

* Google Inc has selected HTC Corp to make its upcoming 9-inch Nexus tablet, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. (http://on.wsj.com/1qYQrAU)

For the deals of the day click on

For the Morning News Call-EMEA newsletter click on (Compiled by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore) 

Released: 2014-9-22T07:30:43.000Z

Document LBA0000020140922ea9m00590




MEDIA-HTC returns to tablets with Google Nexus partnership - WSJ

38 words
22 September 2014
00:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

-- Source link: (http://on.wsj.com/1qYQrAU)

-- Note: Reuters has not verified this story and does not vouch for its accuracy 

Released: 2014-9-22T06:24:24.000Z

Document LBA0000020140922ea9m0041r


 HTC Returns to Tablets with Google Nexus Partnership
WSJ Blogs, 23:19, 21 September 2014, 435 words, By Eva Dou, (English)
After disappointing sales of the Flyer tablet in 2011, HTC's executives said they'd swear off making tablets until they found a compelling reason to try again.
Document WCWSJB0020140922ea9m000p1



Fitch: Sony's USD1.7bn Write-Down Highlights Weakness in Mobiles

775 words
17 September 2014
21:27
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG/SYDNEY/SINGAPORE, September 17 (Fitch) Sony's (BB-/Negative) JPY180bn (USD1.65bn) write-down in its mobile communications business comes as no surprise, and is not likely to affect the credit rating, says Fitch Ratings. Our assumptions about Sony's mobile business profitability and cash generation have been consistently lower than those of management, given the competitive nature of the smartphone market and Sony's struggle to achieve the scale required for this business to be a success. Sony's revisions to its forecast cash flow indicate that it now believes that the mobile communication segment's valuation does not support goodwill which has a carrying value of JPY180m. As a result, the company has reviewed its smartphone strategy, and will now target more niche consumer segments.

 We think the revised strategy to focus on premium mobile products in certain markets is more sound than trying to compete strongly in the mid-range smartphone market. However, lack of scale means that it will struggle against the big two, Apple and Samsung (A+/Stable), and will also face competition in the premium market from LG Electronics (BBB-/Stable), HTC and Nokia. In addition, the premium market is under threat from lower-cost Chinese manufacturers such as Lenovo, Huawei and Xiaomi, whose product design, build quality and functionality is improving to a level which may threaten the premium market in the longer term. These businesses will have to invest significantly in their brands before they represent a significant challenge to the big two in the premium market. Nevertheless, their growing strength in the low- and mid-market is leading to a narrowing in margins for all competitors. According to International Data Corporation, Sony's share of the smartphone market declined to 3.1% in the year to June 2014 (June 2013: 4.0%). In contrast Huawei's share rose to 6.7% from 4.3%, Lenovo to 5.2% from 4.7%, and Xiaomi to 4.6% from 1.7%. The write-down supports our long-held view that mobile phones are unlikely to be a key element in Sony's recovery, and our rating assumes continued weak performance in this segment. However, credit markets were surprised by the announcement, with five-year CDS prices spiking up to 142bp from 112bp, according to Bloomberg, despite the positive news for creditors that the company will not be paying a dividend this year. Management's resolve to make difficult decisions will be tested if performance in the mobile business does not improve. Apart from PCs, the company continues to produce the same products as five years ago, and we believe that more aggressive reform to revamp Sony's product and business portfolio is overdue. For example, the company appears committed to turning around its TV business following 10 straight years of losses. We rate Sony's chance of meeting its break-even target for TVs in the year ending March 2015 (FYE15) at no greater than 50%. Contact: Kelvin Ho Director +852 2263 9940 Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited 2801, Tower Two, Lippo Centre 89 Queensway, Hong Kong Steve Durose Senior Director Deputy Head Asia-Pacific Corporate Ratings Group +61 2 8256 0307 Justin Patrie Senior Director +65 6796 7232 Media Relations: Leslie Tan, Singapore, Tel: +65 67 96 7234, Email: leslie.tan@fitchratings.com; Wai-Lun Wan, Hong Kong, Tel: +852 2263 9935, Email: wailun.wan@fitchratings.com. The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch Wire credit market commentary page. The original article can be accessed at www.fitchratings.com. All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings. ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTP://FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEBSITE 'WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM'. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE 'CODE OF CONDUCT' SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. 

Released: 2014-9-18T03:27:33.000Z

Document LBA0000020140918ea9i001ph


 Can OnePlus 'One Up' Apple's New iPhones?
WSJ Blogs, 05:16, 17 September 2014, 361 words, By Eva Tam, (English)
Watch the video for the full review of the OnePlus One.
Chinese smartphone manufacturer OnePlus is planning to launch a pre-paid system in the next few months for those who are still waiting for their invite to buy its flagship smartphone ...
Document WCWSJB0020140917ea9h002gx



WSJ.D Technology: Google Eyes Emerging Markets With Phone

By R. Jai Krishna and Rolfe Winkler   
614 words
16 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

NEW DELHI -- Google Inc. on Monday unveiled a new line of low-cost smartphones, hoping to persuade more people in India and other emerging markets to upgrade their handsets, and to gain more control over its Android mobile-operating system.

The new phones will cost around $105 and will be the first to use Google's Android One platform, which was designed to give users in developing economies a reliable and affordable way to get online.

"The pace at which users are adopting the Internet is unprecedented," Sundar Pichai, senior vice president at Google who oversees Android, told reporters in India's capital. "Almost all of this growth that is happening in India and the world is due to mobile [phones]."

More than one billion people already use phones that run Google's Android operating system. The new Google platform is an attempt by the company to extend its leading position as it seeks to reach billions more people in emerging markets that historically haven't been able to afford smartphones. Only about 10% of India's more than 900 million cellphone users have smartphones.

Android is the world's dominant smartphone operating system, accounting for 85% of world-wide shipments in the second quarter, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.

But the Android ecosystem can be messy, because the phones are sold by many hardware makers, and users are inconsistent about updating the software. Nearly a year after Google released KitKat, the latest version of the operating system, it is being used on only about one-fourth of Android devices.

With Android One devices, Google will be able to update software remotely, without the help of the handset makers. In theory this should help the company improve the user experience and fix glitches quicker.

Google also is likely trying to protect its brand by having more control over handsets that use its operating system, analysts say. App developers will benefit if more users update the software to the latest version of the operating system.

"For Google, a strong uptake of Android One smartphones should increase the access to the Internet and Google's suite of products," said Bhasker Canagaradjou, associate director at Ipsos SA's business consulting in India.

Google plans to bring Android One smartphones to Indonesia, the Philippines, Pakistan and other South Asian nations by the end of 2014, and more countries next year.

In India, the Android One smartphones will be made and distributed by Micromax Informatics Ltd., P.S. Associates Private Ltd.'s Karbonn and Spice Retail Ltd. Data plans for the phones will be offered from Bharti Airtel Ltd., the country's largest telecommunications company by subscribers.

The Internet search giant plans to add other handset makers, including Japan's Panasonic Corp., China's Lenovo Group Ltd., and Taiwan's HTC Corp.

Other smartphones are available in India for about $105. But Google is hoping the Android One platform -- which includes software and hardware designed by Google -- will help it deliver a more consistent performance than some of the low-cost, Android-powered phones that are already being sold.

Last month, Mozilla Corp. started selling its own line of low-cost smartphones through Indian manufacturers for less than $40.

India is the second-biggest overall telecom market, but is the fourth-largest market for smartphones. The South Asian country offers great growth potential, analysts said.

The new handsets unveiled Monday will allow users to use social networking and messaging services in Hindi. Google plans to add six other Indian languages to Android One phones.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140916ea9g0001y


 Google launches $105 Android One; eyes low-price smartphone boom
Reuters India, 07:42, 15 September 2014, 626 words, Nivedita Bhattacharjee and Tommy Wilkes, (English)
By Nivedita Bhattacharjee and Tommy Wilkes NEW DELHI/MUMBAI (Reuters) - Google Inc(GOOGL.O) launched in India on Monday a $105 smartphone, the first device from its "Android One" initiative which is aimed at boosting sales in key emerging ...
Document WC45421020140915ea9f0000v



Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,159 words
15 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
32
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Sony Moves Closer to an Apple-Style Ecosystem

Sony is finally inching beyond hardware. But to gain real yardage it will have to rip a page from Apple's playbook.

Having slowly rebuilt its reputation for quality electronics, Sony is now trying to stitch those devices together into an ecosystem focused on gaming and entertainment. A deal struck last week to stream content from Viacom is a step in the right direction. The key is uniting hardware, software and services, prompting users to come back again and again.

Apple's iPhones, iPads and computers work in symbiosis with the iTunes store, all united by the Apple operating system. The debut of its Apple Pay mobile-payments service represents the next step in leveraging its massive user base, and heft with retailers, banks and credit-card companies, into an adjacent industry.

Apple's ability to launch attacks into new areas while maintaining a moat around its flagship products is a feat no device-maker dependent on Google's free Android operating system has achieved. The actual near-field communication chip used in Apple's new iPhone to facilitate payments has been in Sony phones since 2012.

Without an ecosystem, Sony and rivals such as Samsung and HTC are vulnerable to intense competition from each other and low-end Chinese smartphone and tablet producers.

Many of Sony's other products, from mirrorless digital cameras to a recently launched $700 audiophile digital Walkman are niche products. Sony's phones, despite winning rave reviews for sleek design and features such as waterproofing, provide little extra value over other Android models.

Though Sony has a 15% share of the smartphone market in Japan, its global share is just 3%, according to IDC.

Unlike other Android-dependent electronics makers, however, Sony has another launching pad from which to develop an ecosystem. It's the company's one true hit, the PlayStation 4, which is handily outselling rival gaming consoles from Microsoft and Nintendo. The PlayStation already provides gamers a mini-ecosystem in which to interact with fellow users, buy games and download them, play online, and watch movies.

Now Sony is starting to expand the borders of the PlayStation universe. Sony recently showed off how its latest smartphone can be paired with a PlayStation controller and become a second screen over a home Wi-Fi connection. It is also unlocking a library of popular old PlayStation games that will soon be playable over the Internet on Sony televisions, and eventually tablets and phones.

And now it is giving these users something beyond game content. The deal with Viacom lets it carry live and on-demand programming from MTV, Comedy Central and 20 other channels on Sony devices.

The move is promising, especially if paired with Sony's own in-house library of films and music. Yet to go up against the likes of Netflix and Amazon.com, Sony needs more Hollywood partners. And if it hopes to compete with cable and satellite providers in live television, acquiring rights to sports and news content will be essential.

Unfortunately for Sony, it is starting these efforts from a small base. The company has sold more than 10 million PlayStation 4 consoles since late last year, but that pales next to Apple's 500 million iTunes customers world-wide. Sony hopes to sell 43 million smartphones in the year to March.

Investors are counting on a change in fortunes. Sony has posted a net loss in four of the past five fiscal years, and projects more red ink for the 12 months to March as a result of restructuring charges. Yet shares are up by double digits so far this year, handily beating a 2% decline in Japan's Nikkei market benchmark.

Decades after buying CBS Records and Columbia Pictures, Sony may at last be on a path to achieving synergy between its electronics and entertainment arms. It is still far from having an ecosystem to compete with the likes of Apple. But pointing oneself in the right direction is the first step in getting out of the woods.

-- Aaron Back

Yields May Not Surge With Fed

Long-term interest rates look primed to go higher. But that doesn't mean they will travel far.

The Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee gathers this week. It looks likely that in its postmeeting statement or through Chairwoman Janet Yellen's news conference, it will talk more concretely about when it will raise rates.

One reason: The economy looks stronger, with reports on services spending and retail sales last week prompting economists to raise estimates for gross domestic product. Another is that the debate over labor-market slack seems to be resolving toward a view that much of the fall in the labor-force participation rate, the share of the population working or looking for work, is due to factors such as an aging population. That implies the market is closer to the point in which employers will have to pay up for workers.

With the Fed looking more hawkish, bond investors have sent the 10-year Treasury yield to 2.61% Friday from 2.35% at the end of last month. It was 3.03% at this year's start.

Moreover, Federal Reserve figures show the term premium for the 10-year Treasury, the extra compensation investors demand to hold it over cash, has fallen sharply this year. Bond returns have tended to be subpar when term premiums are so low, notes Columbia Management interest-rates strategist Zach Pandl.

Despite all the reasons for long-term rates to rise, there are also forces that could keep them low. First, Treasury yields are higher than in Europe and Japan.

With the European Central Bank considering further action, and the Bank of Japan showing no letup in its attempts to reflate the Japanese economy, that isn't about to change.

Second, while the Fed matters for long-term rates, so does inflation. Economists estimate Wednesday's report on consumer inflation will show prices up just 1.9% in August from a year ago. So long as inflation remains low, investors may view even low-yielding Treasurys as a better alternative than cash. And after years of wrongly being told inflation would jump, they may need to see an actual pickup in prices before changing their minds.

Finally, the world still lacks for safer assets. Developing countries now account for 39% of the world economy, according to the International Monetary Fund, from 21% a decade ago. But often their financial markets haven't yet matured to the point where their citizens feel comfortable investing in them. Their savings have to go somewhere, and Treasurys are a favorite destination.

Last decade, the Fed faced the conundrum of why, even as it raised short-term rates, long-term rates stayed so low. History could repeat itself.

-- Justin Lahart

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140914ea9f0001j




Heard on the Street
Sony Edges Toward Apple-Like Ecosystem

By Aaron Back   
673 words
13 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B14
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

Sony is finally inching beyond hardware. But to gain real yardage it will have to rip a page from Apple's playbook.

Having slowly rebuilt its reputation for quality electronics, Sony is now trying to stitch those devices together into an ecosystem focused on gaming and entertainment. A deal struck this week to stream content from Viacom is a step in the right direction.

The key is uniting hardware, software and services, prompting users to come back again and again. Apple is the prime example of this.

Its iPhones, iPads and computers work in symbiosis with the iTunes store, all united by the Apple operating system. The debut of its Apple Pay mobile-payments service represents the next step in leveraging its massive user base, and heft with retailers, banks and credit-card companies, into an adjacent industry.

Apple's ability to launch attacks into new areas while maintaining a moat around its flagship products is a feat no device-maker dependent on Google's free Android operating system has achieved. The actual near-field communication chip used in Apple's new iPhone to facilitate payments has been in Sony phones since 2012. Without an ecosystem, Sony and rivals such as Samsung and HTC are vulnerable to intense competition from each other and low-end Chinese smartphone producers.

Many of Sony's other offerings, from mirrorless digital cameras to a recently launched $700 digital Walkman are niche products. Sony's phones, despite rave reviews for sleek design and features such as waterproofing, provide little extra value over other Android models. Though Sony has a 15% share of Japan's smartphone market, its global share is just 3%, according to IDC.

Unlike other Android-dependent electronics makers, however, Sony has another launching pad from which to develop an ecosystem. It's the company's one true hit, the PlayStation 4, which is handily outselling rival gaming consoles from Microsoft and Nintendo. The PlayStation already provides gamers a mini-ecosystem in which to interact with fellow users, buy games and download them, play online, and watch movies.

Now Sony is starting to expand the PlayStation universe. Last week, it showed off how its latest smartphone can be paired with a PlayStation controller and become a second screen over a home Wi-Fi connection. It is also unlocking a library of popular old PlayStation games that will soon be playable over the Internet on Sony televisions, and eventually tablets and phones.

And now Sony is giving users something beyond game content. The Viacom deal lets it carry live and on-demand programming from MTV, Comedy Central and 20 other channels on Sony devices. The move is promising, especially if paired with Sony's own in-house library of films and music. Yet to go up against the likes of Netflix and Amazon.com, Sony needs more Hollywood partners. And if it hopes to compete with cable and satellite providers in live television, acquiring rights to sports and news content will be essential.

Unfortunately, Sony is starting from a small base. It has sold more than 10 million PlayStation 4 consoles since late last year, but that pales next to Apple's 500 million iTunes customers world-wide. Sony hopes to sell 43 million smartphones in the year to March.

Investors are counting on a change in fortunes. Sony has posted a net loss in four of the past five fiscal years, and projects more red ink for the 12 months to March on restructuring charges. Yet shares are up nearly 18% this year versus a 2% decline in the Nikkei 225.

Decades after buying CBS Records and Columbia Pictures, Sony may at last be on a path to achieving synergy between its electronics and entertainment arms.

It is still far from a true ecosystem But pointing yourself in the right direction is the first step in getting out of the woods.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140913ea9d00007


 What Apple Pay Could Do For The Company
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 10 September 2014, 939 words, (English)
Summary: A look at the new products being rolled out by Apple, When iOS 8 will be available, Amazon tries to steal Apple's thunder, Google talks about the role Dropcam can play in the connected home. Hank Weisbecker reports.
Document MMSAJW0020140910ea9a00001



No sapphire on your new iPhone? China's Huawei has you covered

By Se Young Lee and Michael Gold  
857 words
10 September 2014
01:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.  

SEOUL/TAIPEI (Reuters) - Apple Inc <AAPL.O> may have disappointed many consumers by not putting sapphire glass covers on its new iPhone, but the scratch-resistant material is gradually making its way into mobile devices despite manufacturing challenges and high costs.

Speculation had been rife in the weeks leading up to Tuesday's unveiling of the iPhone 6 that some models would have the extra protection after Apple partnered in November with U.S.-based GT Advanced Technologies Inc <GTAT.O>, a mineral crystal specialist, to make sapphire materials for its devices.

Apple said sapphire glass would be used on its first smartwatch. It also continues to use the durable material to cover the iPhone's camera lens and home button, but gave no hints as to if, or when, the glass would be used on iPhone screens.

China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd [HWT.UL] last week became the first major handset maker to announce the use of sapphire screen covers, saying it would release a limited edition version of its high-end phone with such protection.

Sapphire glass is the hardest material in nature after diamonds. It is used in LED lighting, high-end jewelry and military equipment such as submarine and rocket windows.

According to a recent survey by used phone marketplace www.uSell.com, the most wanted new iPhone 6 feature had been sapphire glass, which is also more sensitive to the touch than other screen protectors.

JP Morgan expects the adoption of sapphire faceplates for smartphones to rise several times next year, albeit from a very low base.

Some Asian handset makers have been talking with the world's two biggest suppliers of raw sapphire glass: U.S.-based Rubicon Technology <RBCN.O> and South Korea's Sapphire Technology <123260.KQ>.

"All smartphone manufacturers have been meeting with all the major sapphire producers including Rubicon," William Weissman, chief financial officer of Rubicon, told Reuters by email.

Sapphire Technology said it had received inquiries from several handset manufacturers, although it declined to identify any prospective customers. Neither have secured big supply deals, company officials say.

Companies such as Rubicon and Sapphire Technology usually sell big chunks of glass to fabricators who then slice it into thin wafers before polishing it.

Apple locked in exclusive supply of the material from GT Advanced with a $578 million investment in a sapphire manufacturing facility in Arizona.

MORE EXPENSIVE THAN GORILLA GLASS

Many analysts expect sapphire glass to be limited initially to premium products due to high prices and the defect rates stemming from difficulties in configuring the glass into smartphone covers.

Finished sapphire covers could cost as much as $40-$45, compared with less than $10 for Gorilla Glass, the screen of choice for most smartphones, according to analysts.

Another Chinese company, Xiaomi Inc, has ordered sapphire covers for a limited edition premium smartphone, according to a recent report by South Korea's Electronic Times. Xiaomi declined to comment.

China's ZTE Corp <000063.SZ> would use sapphire glass on wearable devices it was on the verge of pushing out, an executive said, but did not have immediate plans to introduce such covers on smartphones.

"We believe it's not appropriate for large-scale use because the sapphire supply chain remains complicated, the volume is not high and production capacity is insufficient," said Qianhao Lv, global marketing director of ZTE's mobile business group.

LG Electronics Inc <066570.KS> spokesman Ken Hong said the South Korean company had looked at sapphire screen protection but did not believe the technology was ready yet.

Samsung Electronics Co <005930.KS> and Taiwan's HTC Corp <2498.TW> declined to comment. Shenzhen-based Coolpad <2369.HK> was not immediately available to comment.

The sapphire industry has battled thin margins and falling prices for years due to weak demand from the LED lighting sector, the biggest driver of sapphire consumption. Prices of sapphire wafers for LED lights have dropped to a quarter of where they were a decade ago.

Sapphire crystals are created by applying high heat to purified aluminum oxide in a cylinder called a boule, which is then sliced into thin wafers and polished to form products.

"A major reason for the high cost is that sapphire has just begun to catch on so the defect-free rate is not very stable ... but recently players have been putting a lot of effort into solving this problem," said Hsu Ya-ling, chief financial officer at Tera Xtal Technology, a fabricator based in Taiwan.

Weissman said Rubicon was working on hybrid solutions that would provide many benefits of sapphire as well as a couple of processes that would eliminate the slicing and polishing steps.

Sapphire Technology is also making the boule in a rectangular shape, which allows more smartphone faceplate cuts than bar-type boules.

(Additional reporting by Jeremy Wagstaff in SINGAPORE, Gerry Shih in BEIJING, J.R. Wu in TAIPEI and Christina Farr in SAN FRANCISCO; Writing by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Dean Yates) 

Released: 2014-9-10T06:20:33.000Z

Document LBA0000020140910ea9a005pl


 Less Cheap, More Like an iPhone: The New Xiaomi Phone is Unveiled
WSJ Blogs, 05:58, 10 September 2014, 539 words, (English)
Chinese phone maker Xiaomi Inc. emerged three years ago from nowhere to become one of the top-selling brands in China's competitive smartphone market on the strength of its top-shelf specs and cheap prices.?As of this year's first quarter, ...
Document WCWSJB0020140910ea9a001rx

 Can Amazon's Phone Catch Fire in the U.K.?
WSJ Blogs, 02:53, 10 September 2014, 695 words, By Simon Zekaria, (English)
Amazon tried to steal the thunder of Apple's iPhone launch Tuesday by launching its Fire Phone in the U.K., but will it make waves or sink without trace?
Document WCWSJB0020140910ea9a0018i



BREAKINGVIEWS-China smartphones set to pick off global giants

529 words
8 September 2014
21:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)

By Ethan Bilby

HONG KONG, Sept 9 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Not everyone is able to spend $500 on a smartphone. For those lacking funds or wanting better value for money, China's handset makers increasingly appeal. Today, most of their sales are domestic. Yet low costs are helping them dial in new emerging market customers.

Chinese brands have quickly seized control of their home market. Just a few years ago, the likes of Nokia and HTC were major players. Now upstarts like Xiaomi dominate. In the three months to June, domestic manufacturers produced more than three out of every four handsets sold in the People's Republic, according to Canalys analysts.

Assuming Lenovo completes its acquisition of Motorola, roughly 40 percent of phones shipped worldwide in the second quarter were Chinese-owned brands. Yet manufacturers like Coolpad and Huawei do much better at home than abroad. In the rest of the world, the market share for Chinese manufacturers is only 19 percent.

Tight control over manufacturing and low labour costs have enabled Chinese groups to offer powerful phones at lower prices than competitors like Samsung. That advantage gives Chinese brands an opportunity to find a following, particularly in growing markets. Consumers in Britain and Brazil are both expected to buy roughly 32 million phones this year. Yet the market in the South American country will expand by 76 percent, compared with 7 percent growth in the United Kingdom. Buying an existing brand can also provide a regional boost. Despite its woes, Motorola remains Brazil's most popular smartphone brand, which should help Lenovo in Latin America.

Distribution remains a challenge, however. In China, domestic groups have benefitted from subsidies offered by network operators that encourage data-using customers to buy smartphones. Aside from TCL and Huawei, most Chinese manufacturers lack established relations with overseas telecom operators. In countries like India and Indonesia, they also face competition from local low-cost manufacturers.

Over time, however, it seems unlikely that Chinese manufacturers will only succeed at home. Their international rivals face a global fight.

https://twitter.com/EthanBilby

              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              


- Chinese smartphone maker Coolpad is looking into overseas acquisitions to help it expand abroad, the Wall Street Journal reported on Aug. 21.

- The group is aiming for sales outside China to account for 30 percent of its revenue by 2017, from less than 10 percent last year.

- Lenovo said on Aug. 14 that nearly 20 percent of its smartphones were sold outside China. The group does not provide a figure, but referred to IDC data which estimated it shipped 15.7 million phones in the six months ending June.

- Huawei said on July 29 it shipped 34.3 million smartphones in the six months ending June, up 62 percent from the same period last year.

- Reuters: After China smartphone success, Lenovo plans leap forward overseas

RELATED COLUMNS

First we take Beijing

Under the lens

-- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (Editing by Peter Thal Larsen and Robyn Mak) 

Released: 2014-9-9T03:00:05.000Z

Document LBA0000020140909ea99001mq


 The Internet of (Hardly Connected) Things
WSJ Blogs, 06:08, 8 September 2014, 541 words, (English)
By ?Stephan D?rner and Chase Gummer
The "Internet of Things" ?which refers to the billions of devices that are expected to be connected to each other and to the Internet, is a catchphrase that's hard to escape these days.
Document WCWSJB0020140908ea98002bd

 Samsung Unveils New Partnerships Along With the Gadgets
WSJ Blogs, 23:59, 4 September 2014, 375 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
Along with the new high-end smartphones, virtual reality headset?and new appliances it is showcasing this week at the IFA trade show in Berlin, Samsung also appears to be expanding a web of partnerships.
Document WCWSJB0020140905ea95000ul



BRIEF-Taiwan smartphone maker HTC's August consolidated revenue up 10.43 pct y/y at T$14.5 bln

61 words
2 September 2014
23:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

Sept 3 (Reuters) - HTC Corp

* Says consolidated revenue in August up 10.43 percent y/y at T$14.5 billion (484.82 million US dollar)                              

Source text in English: http://bit.ly/W8ZEZD

Released: 2014-9-3T05:02:14.000Z

Document LBA0000020140903ea930043a


 BRIEF-Taiwan smartphone maker HTC's August consolidated revenue up 10.43 pct y/y at T$14.5 bln
Reuters, 23:02, 2 September 2014, 116 words, (English)
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual ...
Document WCLBA00020140903ea93001e1

 Note-taking App's Secret of Success: Keep It Simple
WSJ Blogs, 19:47, 1 September 2014, 542 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
ColorNote competes with the likes of Evernote but outranks the latter on Google Play in tens of countries, in terms of productivity.
Unlike the vast majority of Seoul-born apps that struggle to expand overseas, over 94% of ColorNote's users ...
Document WCWSJB0020140902ea9200001



Asian-Pacific Stocks
Taiwan Gets Boost From Tech Shares

By Chao Deng   
434 words
28 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Gains in technology stocks helped the Taiwan market outperform, while most Asian markets were up amid hopes that the European Central Bank will introduce new stimulus measures.

Improved optimism about the global economy and anticipation of new product launches, including the latest iteration of Apple's iPhone expected next month, fueled bargain hunting on Wednesday in Taiwan, where the Taiex index rose 1% to 9485.59.

Hon Hai Precision Industry, one of Apple's major assemblers, was up 1.8%, smartphone provider HTC rose 1.5% and touch-panel maker TPK Holding jumped 5.4%.

Gains were more muted on other markets, albeit buoyed by a climb in the U.S. market overnight, as well as indications from the European Central Bank that it is considering bond buying.

The S&P 500 closed above 2000 for the first time Tuesday in New York. In the euro zone, investors have seen a marked deterioration of economic data from the euro zone in recent weeks, but they are betting that Europe may be edging closer to a large-scale asset-purchase program known as quantitative easing, which has lifted euro-zone bonds.

Japan's Nikkei Stock Average rose 0.1% to 15534.82, Singapore's Straits Times Index rose 0.6% to 3341.46 and South Korea's Kospi was up 0.3% at 2074.93. India's Sensex rose 0.4% to 26560.15, gaining for a fifth consecutive session to end at another record.

Australia's S&P/ASX 200 edged up 0.2% to 5651.20, as investors appeared more cautious after the index's gains in the past two weeks.

The region's worst performer was Hong Kong, where the Hang Seng Index fell 0.6% to 24918.75, as disappointing bank profits pulled down the financial sector.

Agricultural Bank of China, China's third-largest lender by assets, lost 0.8% after the bank reported the slowest growth in first-half profits in four years, mainly due to recent government scrutiny on lending-related fees. Shares in China Construction Bank fell 1.2%.

In corporate news, Otsuka Holdings rose 7.5% in Tokyo after announcing a midterm business plan in which it targets an operating profit of 200 billion yen for the fiscal year ending December 2018. The firm also set its dividend payout target at 100 yen a share, above the consensus view.

Boral climbed 4.5% in Sydney after signaling an increase in demand for building materials.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140827ea8s0000g




Managing -- Boss Talk Asia: Huawei Shaking Up Smartphone Market --- Richard Yu, Head of Firm's Consumer Business Group, Talks About Competing Against Samsung and Apple

By Juro Osawa and Yun-Hee Kim   
1,119 words
25 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
8
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Huawei Technologies Co. may be unknown to many U.S. consumers, but the Chinese company is becoming a threat to Samsung Electronics Co., the world's biggest smartphone maker.

Huawei's rise is an indication that growth in the mobile-phone industry is coming mainly from outside China -- emerging markets where many consumers are still replacing basic feature phones with smartphones. While China's increasingly saturated smartphone market is showing signs of slowing growth, Huawei is expanding rapidly in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.

As Huawei tries to sell more handsets overseas, among its advantages are its close relationships with mobile carriers around the world. Huawei, whose main business is supplying networking equipment, counts most major telecom operators as its clients. For the past few years, Huawei has been trying to turn its smartphone business into another major source of revenue and profit.

In the second quarter, Huawei was the third-largest smartphone maker in the world, as its market share rose to 6.9% from 4.3% a year earlier, according to research firm IDC. Samsung's market share dropped to 25% from 32% a year earlier, while Apple Inc.'s share fell slightly to 12% from 13%. Huawei's shipments for the quarter jumped 95% from a year earlier, by far the fastest growth among major handset vendors, while Samsung's shipments declined 3.9%. Analysts say Huawei is more of a threat to Samsung than to Apple, since Samsung sells handsets at various price points and most of its phones use Android, like Huawei phones do.

In a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal at the company's headquarters in Shenzhen, Richard Yu, the head of Huawei's consumer business group, talked about the future of the global smartphone industry and how Huawei will compete against Samsung and Apple.

WSJ: Why did Huawei decide to sell consumer devices in the first place, instead of continuing to concentrate on telecom equipment?

Mr. Yu: About 10 to 12 years ago, telecom carriers began to roll out third-generation mobile networks. But 3G phones were still very expensive, and carriers wanted Huawei to design handsets. We made white-label phones (that were sold under the carriers' names). After Apple launched the iPhone, carriers asked us to design smartphones for them. At that time, HTC and Samsung were the main suppliers of Android smartphones, and there were few others.

Our products had good quality. As a white-label supplier, we had to compete against other white-label smartphones that cost less and had lower quality. It wasn't good for us. No brand, no value. That's why we started using our own brand.

WSJ: How is Huawei doing in the smartphone market?

Mr. Yu: There are too many smartphone makers in the market, especially in China. The whole industry is consolidating and some global vendors are disappearing. But even though most vendors are suffering, Huawei is growing, not only in terms of shipments and revenue, but also profit. Last year we became the third-largest supplier by shipment. We shipped 52 million smartphones last year, and our target for this year is more than 80 million.

WSJ: What makes Huawei different? What's your advantage?

Mr. Yu: There are many other brands that are also providing very good products, and some are better-known brands than Huawei. But we are a telecom equipment supplier. We build communications networks around the world, both fixed broadband and mobile broadband networks. Because we have that technology, we can make our mobile devices work better when they connect to the networks. We think we can support the latest network technology better than other handset makers. This is the value we can bring.

WSJ: What is Huawei doing in terms of software for smartphones?

Mr. Yu: User experience is key and we put a lot of resources in software research and development. We build our own user interface software on top of Android. Our software team has roughly 2,000 people, and we are increasing our investment about 20% to 30% every year. To provide better services, we have partnered with some software and Internet companies. The industry is changing and you cannot do everything by yourself.

WSJ: For most handset makers Android is the only option. Is that a problem?

Mr. Yu: It's difficult to say. We have tried using the Windows Phone OS. But it has been difficult to persuade consumers to buy a Windows phone. It wasn't profitable for us. We were losing money for two years on those phones. So for now we've decided to put any releases of new Windows phones on hold. We have worries about Android being the only option, but we have no choice. And we have a good collaboration with Google.

WSJ: Have you ever considered using the Tizen operating system [developed by Samsung and backed by Intel Corp. and others]?

Mr. Yu: We have no plans to use Tizen. Some telecom carriers are pushing us to design Tizen phones but I say "no" to them. In the past we had a team to do research on Tizen but I canceled it. We feel Tizen has no chance to be successful. Even for Windows Phone it's difficult to be successful.

We have no plans to build our own OS. It's easy to design a new OS, but the problem is building the ecosystem around it.

WSJ: Lenovo Group Ltd., another Chinese smartphone maker, is in the process of buying Motorola Mobility. What is Huawei's strategy in terms of acquisitions?

Mr. Yu: Lenovo may gain market share with acquisitions, but different companies have different approaches. We are not so eager to acquire companies. We invest more in research and development. Larger scale can help lower costs and it's important. But it's not the most important thing. Without investing more in R&D, you can't bring better products and more value to consumers.

WSJ: Are you trying to sell more mobile devices to companies and government clients?

Mr. Yu: Our enterprise customers (Huawei supplies equipment to corporate clients and helps build their private networks) need mobile devices. Those customers care about security and efficiency. To meet their demand, our device business is working with our enterprise equipment business. Apple recently announced a partnership with IBM and Samsung's Knox business is providing services for enterprise clients. This is an important business for Huawei, too.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140824ea8p00002




Corrections & Amplifications
Corrections & Amplifications

273 words
22 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

The HTC One (M8) is the Windows Phone version of the HTC One Android phone. A contents box in Wednesday's Personal Journal incorrectly described it as an Android phone.

---

Indiana University was incorrectly called the University of Indiana in a Page One article Thursday about tours of Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris.

(See: "At a Historic Paris Cemetery, Rival Guides Find Stiff Competition" -- WSJ August 21, 2014)

---

The name of Chikako Horiuchi, director at Fitch Ratings' financial institution group, was incorrectly given as Chikjaako Horiuchi in a Global Finance article on Thursday about Citigroup Inc.'s plans for its Japanese retail-banking unit.

(See: "Global Finance: Citi Unit's Appeal: Rich Japanese Clients" -- WSJ August 21, 2014)

---

Mo'ne Davis's Philadelphia Little League team was still alive in the Little League World Series after Wednesday's play; the team lost to Las Vegas, 8-1, on Wednesday night but the tournament is double elimination. In some editions Thursday, a Sports article about the young pitching star incorrectly said her team was eliminated.

(See: "Sports: Heard on The Field" -- WSJ August 21, 2014)

---

A Pinot Noir will always be lighter than a Cabernet, and a Pinot Grigio is always lighter than a Chardonnay. In some editions Saturday, the On Wine column in Off Duty incorrectly said Pinot Noir will always be darker than Cabernet and Pinot Grigio is always darker than Chardonnay.

---

Readers can alert The Wall Street Journal to any errors in news articles by e-mailing wsjcontact@wsj.com or by calling 888-410-2667.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140822ea8m00025




Decos and Corrections
Corrections & Amplifications

229 words
21 August 2014
16:56
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The HTC One (M8) is the Windows Phone version of the HTC One Android phone. A contents box in Wednesday's Personal Journal incorrectly described it as an Android phone.

Indiana University was incorrectly called the University of Indiana in a Page One article Thursday about tours of P?re Lachaise cemetery in Paris.

The name of Chikako Horiuchi, director at Fitch Ratings' financial institution group, was incorrectly given as Chikjaako Horiuchi in a Global Finance article on Thursday about Citigroup Inc.'s plans for its Japanese retail-banking unit.

Mo'ne Davis's Philadelphia Little League team was still alive in the Little League World Series after Wednesday's play; the team lost to Las Vegas, 8-1, on Wednesday night but the tournament is double elimination. In some editions Thursday, a Sports article about the young pitching star incorrectly said her team was eliminated.

A Pinot Noir will always be lighter than a Cabernet, and a Pinot Grigio is always lighter than a Chardonnay. In some editions Saturday, the On Wine column in Off Duty incorrectly said Pinot Noir will always be darker than Cabernet and Pinot Grigio is always darker than Chardonnay.

Receiver Stephen Hill was selected by the Jets in the second round of the 2012 draft. A sports article on Thursday incorrectly said he was a third-round pick.

Document WSJO000020140822ea8l00034


 Uber Makes Some Moves
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 20 August 2014, 1185 words, (English)
Summary: Uber announces a new hire and chooses Washington D.C. as the market to test a new feature; The tablet that will help your kids get along better; And an HTC phone will feature Windows Mobile; Mike Weinstein has those stories and ...
Document MMSAJW0020140820ea8k00001



Home & Digital: HTC One Gets a Windows Full of Opportunity --- Much-Improved 'Third' Phone Platform Is Easier to Navigate than Android, More Customizable Than iPhone

By Joanna Stern   
1,073 words
20 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
D3
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Last week, I went hunting for people using Windows Phones in Times Square. Two hours and zero sightings. Instead, there were thousands of people holding up their glowing iPhones or Android phones to take pictures of Great White Way. A kind lady from London did tell me she was fairly certain her great uncle owned a Windows Phone.

While my method wasn't scientific, the straw poll represents the reality of the global smartphone market. Google's Android has 85% of the market share while Apple's iPhone is at 12%, according to IDC's latest numbers. Microsoft? Windows Phone has a measly 2.5% and it isn't growing.

So what's wrong with the "third" smartphone platform? Until now, the assumption was that Windows Phones weren't as good as the others. And for the first years of the platform's life that was true because of middling hardware and nascent software.

But thanks to software updates released this summer, Windows Phone has as much or more functionality than Android or iOS -- that is, if you don't consider third-party apps. And the hardware has caught up, too. Just today, the best-designed Android phone -- the HTC One -- is being released with Windows Phone 8.1, for now exclusively at Verizon.

So, why don't more people give Windows Phone a go? At this point, it has little to do with how good the platform has become and everything to do with the rule of the masses: It's hard to go against the crowd.

If there was any doubt that Windows Phone devices were as attractive or well made as the iPhone or the best Android phones, the striking HTC One (M8) for Windows immediately dispels that myth.

A carbon copy of the Android model I've loved since its March debut, the One's bright and crisp 5-inch 1080p screen is enclosed in a solid piece of aluminum, giving it a high-quality heft. And despite its thinner dimensions, it can last all day long on a charge, even with the screen brightness cranked up.

Like on the Android model, my biggest complaint is about its rear-facing camera. Despite some novel shooting tricks, the photos didn't turn out as sharp and well balanced as the ones you'd take with the priciest Nokia Windows Phones.

That said, it does capture photos faster than any smartphone I've tested and if you're vying to be a better selfie-snapper than Kim Kardashian herself, the 5-megapixel front-facing camera is what you need.

So if all things are now equal in hardware, software must be Windows Phone's big problem, right? That used to be the case.

Windows Phone is now as good an operating system as the others. I find it easier to navigate than Android, yet more customizable than iOS. Live tiles show core information without having to open an app and a new notification center puts new messages and important system settings in closer reach. Customizing app notifications, creating folders, organizing apps on the tile screen -- even toggling between open apps -- are all simple moves.

The core apps are more fully baked now, too. With the email and calendar apps, I can manage my work and Gmail messages and schedules as easily as I do on an iPhone or Moto X Android phone. Better yet, Internet Explorer is as snappy as the rivals, and opening and saving documents in Office doesn't require a coffee break.

I didn't even miss Google Maps on Windows Phone. Bing Maps consistently provided really good transit directions, and Waze, a Google-owned, third-party app, helped me fight traffic while driving into New York City.

How about Cortana, Microsoft's answer to Siri and Google Now? Without a prompt, she told me what traffic would be like on my way to work and gathered top news stories based on my interests.

I repeatedly used her location-aware reminder feature to remember to do things when I got to the office and relied on her for the weather. I was starting to think she was the world's smartest digital assistant until she recommended, out of all of the great and affordable restaurants in New York City, dinner at Applebee's.

Apps are still where Windows Phone struggles to keep up with the Joneses. There are more than 320,000 apps in the Microsoft Store and you'll find most of the big names -- everything from Facebook to Netflix to Spotify to Uber to Instagram. But because there aren't as many Windows Phone users, app makers don't pay attention to their Windows Phone apps as much as iOS or Android.

As for buzzy new iPhone and Android apps, they usually arrive later for Windows Phone -- if they turn up at all. And Google doesn't offer its core apps for the platform, including YouTube, Hangouts, Maps or Google Drive. You'll be hard pressed to find the apps that work with your connected accessories, too.

Microsoft says it is trying to make it easier for developers to create apps that work across Windows, Windows Phone and Xbox. But it's hard to imagine that being as good as the competition will change the tide. People don't use Windows Phones because . . . people don't use Windows Phones.

By the time Microsoft got its act together, the masses had chosen sides between iPhones and Android phones. For most, a switch just isn't worth it.

But stranger things have happened than a solid platform from a committed tech giant gaining in popularity. If you're tired of the current options and can live without the apps and services that set the Internet abuzz, the HTC One (M8) for Windows is a great device and it's just $100 with a two-year contract at Verizon.

---

Microsoft's Windows Phone

PROS

-- Customizable, easy-to-use 'live tile' interface

-- Solid, fully featured core apps

-- Easy to manage and edit documents and attachments

CONS

-- Quality of third-party apps not as good as iOS and Android

-- Many popular third-party apps still not available in store

-- Cortana makes some odd recommendations

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140820ea8k00011




Tech
HTC One for Windows: Another Great Phone You Probably Won't Buy; The Best-Designed Android Phone Is Being Released With Windows Phone 8.1

By Joanna Stern 
1,274 words
19 August 2014
05:42
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Last week, I went hunting for people using Windows Phones in Times Square. Two hours in one of the busiest spots on Earth¡Xzero sightings. Instead, there were thousands of people, from Iowa, Italy and India, holding up their glowing iPhones or Android phones to take photos of Great White Way. One kind lady from London did tell me she was fairly certain her great uncle owned a Windows Phone.

While my method wasn't scientific, the straw poll represents the reality of the global smartphone market. Google's Android has close to 85% of the market share while Apple's iPhone is at 12%, according to IDC's latest numbers. Microsoft? Windows Phone holds a measly 2.5% and it isn't growing.

So what's wrong with the "third" smartphone platform? Until now, the assumption was that Windows Phones just weren't as good as the others. And for the first number of years of the platform's life that was true because of middling hardware and nascent software.

But now, thanks to various software updates released throughout the summer, that once-trailing platform has as much or more functionality than Android or iOS¡Xthat is, if you don't consider third-party apps.

And the hardware has caught up, too. Just today, the best-designed Android phone¡Xthe HTC One¡Xis being released with Windows Phone 8.1, for now exclusively at Verizon.

So, why don't more people give Windows Phone a go? At this point it has very little to do with how good of a smartphone platform it has become, and everything to do with the rule of the masses: It's hard to go one way when everybody else is going another.

The HTC One¡XOne More Time

If there was any doubt that Windows Phone devices were as attractive or well made as the iPhone or the best Android phones, the striking HTC One (M8) for Windows immediately dispels that myth.

A carbon copy of the Android model I've loved since its debut in March, the One's bright and crisp 5-inch 1080p screen is enclosed in a solid piece of aluminum, giving it a weight that suggests higher quality than the plastic wares from LG, Samsung and Nokia. And despite its thinner dimensions, it can last all day long on a charge, even with the screen brightness cranked up.

Like on the Android model, my biggest complaint is about its ultrapixel camera¡Xalong with a second camera that strictly captures depth information to allow you to refocus photos after you take them. Despite the gimmicks, the photos just don't turn out as sharp and well balanced as the ones you'd take with the priciest Nokia Lumia Windows Phones.

That said, it does capture photos faster than any smartphone I've tested and if you're vying to be a better selfie-snapper than Kim Kardashian herself, the 5-megapixel front-facing camera is what you need.

The Latecomer Catches Up

So if all things are now equal in hardware, software must be Windows Phone's big problem, right? That used to be the case for the late-to-the-party platform, but it certainly isn't anymore.

Windows Phone is now as good an operating system as the others. I find it easier to navigate than Android, yet more customizable than iOS. Live tiles show core information without you having to open an app and a new notification center puts new messages and important system settings in closer reach. Customizing app notifications, creating folders, organizing apps right on the tile screen¡Xeven toggling between open apps¡Xare all simple moves.

The core apps are more fully baked now, too. With the email and calendar apps, I can manage my work and Gmail messages and schedules as easily as I do on an iPhone or Moto X Android phone. Better yet, opening attached documents and saving revisions in Office doesn't require a coffee break like on the other platforms, and Internet Explorer is just as snappy as mobile Safari and Chrome.

Believe it or not, I didn't even miss Google Maps during my week on Windows Phone. Bing Maps, which is powered in part by Nokia's massive map database, consistently provided really good transit directions, and Waze, a Google-owned, third-party app, helped me fight traffic and road closures while driving into New York City.

How about Cortana, Microsoft's answer to Siri and Google Now? Without a prompt, she told me what traffic would be like on my way to work and even gathered top news stories based on my interests.

I repeatedly used her location-aware reminder feature to remember to do things when I got to the office, relied on her for the weather and enjoyed her humorous answers to my snarky questions. I was starting to think she was the world's smartest digital assistant¡Xright up to the point when she recommended, out of the thousands of great and affordable restaurants in New York City, dinner at Applebee's.

The App Gap

Apps are still where Windows Phone struggles to keep up with the Joneses.

It isn't in the quantity of apps anymore. There are more than 320,000 apps in the Microsoft Store and you'll find most of the big names¡Xeverything from Facebook to Netflix to Spotify to Uber to Instagram. But because there aren't as many Windows Phone users, app makers don't pay attention to their Windows Phone apps as much as iOS or Android.

For instance, Instagram has all the usual filters on Windows Phone, but it lacks the editing tools that were recently added to iPhone and Android. Similarly, in Rdio, I spent a good five minutes looking for the top playlists chart before realizing it wasn't there.

As for the newest iPhone and Android apps¡Xbuzzy ones like Lyft, VSCOcam, Secret and Tinder¡Xthey aren't available yet on Windows Phone. And Google doesn't offer its core apps for the platform, including YouTube, Hangouts, Maps or Google Drive. You'll be hard pressed to find the apps that work with your connected accessories, too. Without Windows Phone companion apps, I couldn't pair my Jawbone Up fitness tracker or the Bluetooth tag I use to track my keys.

Microsoft says it is trying to make it easier for developers to create apps that work across Windows, Windows Phone and Xbox. But even then, it's hard to imagine that being as good as the competition will change the tide. People don't use Windows Phones because ¡K people don't use Windows Phones.

In the smartphone market, people tend to join in the biggest crowds. By the time Microsoft got its act together, the masses had chosen sides between iPhones and Android phones. For most, a switch would be like moving from a comfortable home to a comfortable home across the street¡Xit just isn't worth it.

But stranger things have happened than a solid platform from a fiscally sound and committed tech giant gaining in popularity. If you're tired of the current options and can live without the apps and services that set the Internet abuzz, the HTC One (M8) for Windows is a great device and it's just $100 with a two-year contract at Verizon. That or just stick with the crowd.

Write to Joanna Stern at 

Document WSJO000020140819ea8j0040h


 HTC One With Windows Phone 8.1 Review
Wall Street Journal Video, 19 August 2014, 524 words, (English)
Summary: Windows Phone smartphones have gotten quite good, so why doesn¡¦t anyone buy them? WSJ Personal Tech Columnist Joanna Stern tests the HTC One (M8) with Windows Phone 8.1 to find out. Photo/Video: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal.
Document MMSAJB0020140819ea8j000b5

 The Morning Download: Fedex, Gap, Other Big Firms Embrace Software-Defined Networking
CIO Report, 07:35, 4 August 2014, 2088 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020140804ea840002t



Corporate News: Microsoft Claims Samsung Violated Patent Agreement

By Shira Ovide   
405 words
2 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B11
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Microsoft Corp. sued Samsung Electronics Co., claiming its Korean rival violated a patent-licensing contract.

The dispute involves technology included in Android, Google Inc.'s operating system for mobile phones and tablets. Samsung is the leading maker of Android devices.

Microsoft holds patents on technologies it says are included in Android, such as methods for displaying multiple windows in a Web browser. The Redmond, Wash., company has struck patent cross-licensing agreements with several Android-device makers including Samsung and HTC Corp. Microsoft also on occasion has sued some Android device makers for allegedly infringing on its patents.

Under a 2011 deal, Samsung pays Microsoft an undisclosed amount for each Android phone and tablet it sells. Nomura Securities analyst Rick Sherlund last year estimated Microsoft collects roughly $2 billion annually from patent fees on Android devices.

In a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, Microsoft said Samsung failed to make a recent royalty payment on time, and then refused to pay interest on its late payment. Samsung has said Microsoft's April purchase of Nokia Corp.'s mobile-devices business violated terms of the companies' licensing contract and another business agreement, according to Microsoft's court filing.

"After becoming the leading player in the world-wide smartphone market, Samsung decided late last year to stop complying with its agreement with Microsoft," David Howard, a Microsoft deputy general counsel, wrote in a blog post Friday.

"We will review the complaint in detail and determine appropriate measures in response," a Samsung spokeswoman said Friday.

Patent disputes have become a fixture of the smartphone age, and they have spilled repeatedly into court including tussles between Samsung and Apple Inc. The Microsoft lawsuit shows intellectual property remains a flash point for wars among technology giants.

The filing also highlights the secretive nature of patent negotiations. The public version of Microsoft's complaint is heavily redacted, including portions that appear to disclose the amount of patent royalty fees Samsung pays Microsoft, the method of calculating the fee and the length of the patent-licensing contract.

Microsoft is asking a judge to enforce the terms of the 2011 contract, and declare that the Nokia acquisition doesn't invalidate the companies' licensing agreement.

Samsung makes PCs running Microsoft's Windows operating system, and it sells smartphones with Windows Phone software.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020140802ea820003l




Asia
Gas Explosions in Taiwan Kill at Least 25; Hundreds Injured in Series of Blasts in Kaohsiung, Taiwan's Second-Largest City

By Jenny Hsu,                  Eva Dou and Aries Poon 
856 words
1 August 2014
01:40
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XDeadly explosions caused by a gas leak overnight killed at least 25 people and injured 257 in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung, according to government officials.

Underground explosions in Taiwan's second-largest city triggered fires that ripped off manhole covers on roads and cratered large boulevards, local television footage showed. Roads exploded with flames, overturning cars and collapsing houses. Many streets are still littered with rubble and impassible by ambulances.

Economic Minister Chang Chia-juch said Friday that officials are still unable to determine what caused the blast, though an initial investigation indicated the leak could have occurred in an underground pipeline that transports propene, a highly flammable, nearly odorless petrochemical used for polyesters. Kaohsiung is one of Taiwan's centers of petrochemical production.

In a Friday video conference broadcast on local television, Kaohsiung Mayor Chen Chu asked President Ma Ying-jeou to review the city's underground petrochemical pipeline system to avoid future accidents.

The situation now has been contained, the government's Emergency Operations Center said, and the fire department had cut the pipeline's gas supply shortly after the explosions.

The chance of further explosions is "extremely slim at the moment because all gas supply has been turned off," said Kaohsiung city spokesman Ting Yun-kung.

The center added that 111 of the injured were already discharged from hospitals, while at least two people are still missing. A photojournalist for Apple Daily, a popular Hong Kong newspaper, was injured near an explosion site while covering the incident, the paper said.

Some people said tearfully on local TV that their families or friends are likely buried in collapsed houses, though reports are unconfirmed. Four police and firefighters are among the dead, the center said. Earlier it had reported 270 injured.

The Kaohsiung government has set up its own emergency center. The Ministry of National Defense said it has deployed more than 1,600 military personnel to assist in the rescue operations.

Mr. Chang didn't identify the company that operates the pipeline in the area and said the investigation is ongoing. A number of petrochemical companies scrambled Friday to distance from the blast.

The government said the fire department was notified by residents of possible gas leaks at 8:46 p.m. local time Thursday. Residents said that they had smelled gas and seen smoke emerging from drains shortly before the explosion. Officials still aren't certain what caused the smell. Firefighters were dispatched to the scene immediately to assess the situation, according to a government official.

Multiple blasts began around midnight, affecting an area of two to three square kilometers, or less than two square miles. One video clip posted on YouTube shows what looks like a narrow residential street suddenly exploding down its length.

Local companies have pledged tens of millions of New Taiwan dollars to the rescue operation. Formosa Plastics Group, a Taiwanese conglomerate, said it would donate NT$20 million (US$665,912) while Foxconn Technology Group, a key Apple Inc. supplier also known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., pledged NT$10 million. Smartphone maker HTC Corp. and its charity foundation together pledged NT$10 million and computer manufacturer Acer Inc., NT$2 million, the companies said.

Flags throughout the island are ordered to fly at half-mast for the next three days and condolences have flooded social media, where people are forming volunteer groups to help distribute food and hygiene supplies.

The cause of the explosion and the owner of the leaky pipeline are still unknown. Government-owned refiner CPC Corp. said it doesn't own the pipeline. LCY Chemical Corp., a petrochemical maker, which local media reported as the owner of the pipeline, also issued a statement that said its pipeline was more than 10 meters from the site of the blast and carried propene, which may not have the smell the residents reported.

The government said it is still too early to determine the cause of the explosion or where the gas leak began because the area is covered with rubble, impeding the research team from thoroughly surveying the grounds and examining the pipes. The complex web of pipes beneath the city makes it difficult to assess the types of pipes damaged and their ownership, the city's spokesman said.

Local brokerage First Financial Holding Co. said the explosion, the worst of this type in Taiwan's history, is unlikely to hit the electronics supply chain in the south. Many suppliers are located in the Kaohsiung Software Park, about 2 kilometers away from the blast area. Some may be hit by temporary outage of electricity and water supply, it said.

Explosions and fires, some caused by gas leaks, have hit petrochemical complexes in Taiwan in the past, though most were contained inside the compounds.

The blast is the second deadly disaster in Taiwan in two weeks. Last Wednesday, a TransAsia flight crashed in an outlying Taiwanese island and killed at least 48 aboard. 

Document WSJO000020140731ea7v006k8




Asia
Deadly Gas-Pipeline Explosions Rock Taiwan; At Least 25 Killed, Hundreds Injured in Series of Blasts in Kaohsiung

By Jenny Hsu,                  Eva Dou and Aries Poon 
964 words
1 August 2014
02:39
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XDeadly explosions caused by a gas leak overnight killed at least 25 people and injured 257 in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung, according to government officials.

Underground explosions in Taiwan's second-largest city triggered fires that ripped off manhole covers on roads and cratered large boulevards, local television footage showed. Roads exploded with flames, overturning cars and collapsing houses. Many streets were still littered with rubble and impassible by ambulances.

"Around midnight, there was a very strong blast. From my balcony, I saw a huge fireball that was at least 10 floors high. All the furniture at my home rattled a little bit, and it was very, very loud. Then I heard people screaming. Two to three minutes later, another blast occurred," said Johnson Shen, whose apartment is about 200 feet away from the blast area.

Economic Minister Chang Chia-juch said Friday that officials are still unable to determine what caused the blast, though an initial investigation indicated the leak could have occurred in an underground pipeline that transports propene, a highly flammable, nearly odorless petrochemical used for polyesters. Kaohsiung is one of Taiwan's centers of petrochemical production.

But Mr. Shen said that when he was riding home on his motorcycle shortly before 9 p.m. local time, "there was already a very strong gas smell on the road. It smelt like the gas we use at home for cooking."

In a Friday video conference broadcast on local television, Kaohsiung Mayor Chen Chu asked President Ma Ying-jeou to review the city's underground petrochemical pipeline system to avoid future accidents.

The situation now has been contained, the government's Emergency Operations Center said, and the fire department had cut the pipeline's gas supply shortly after the explosions.

The chance of further explosions is "extremely slim at the moment because all gas supply has been turned off," said Kaohsiung city spokesman Ting Yun-kung.

The center added that 111 of the injured were already discharged from hospitals, while at least two people were still missing. A photojournalist for Apple Daily, a popular Hong Kong newspaper, was injured near an explosion site while covering the incident, the paper said.

Some people said tearfully on local TV that their families or friends were likely buried in collapsed houses, though reports were unconfirmed. Four police and firefighters were among the dead, the center said. Earlier it had reported 270 people were injured.

The Kaohsiung government has set up its own emergency center. The Ministry of National Defense said it has deployed more than 1,600 military personnel to assist in the rescue operations.

Mr. Chang didn't identify the company that operates the pipeline in the area and said the investigation is continuing. A number of petrochemical companies scrambled Friday to distance themselves from the blast.

The government said the fire department was notified by residents of possible gas leaks at 8:46 p.m. local time Thursday. Residents said that they had smelled gas and seen smoke emerging from drains shortly before the explosion. Officials still aren't certain what caused the smell. Firefighters were dispatched to the scene immediately to assess the situation, according to a government official.

Multiple blasts began around midnight, affecting an area of two to three square kilometers, or less than two square miles. One video clip posted on YouTube shows what looks like a narrow residential street suddenly exploding down its length.

Local companies have pledged tens of millions of New Taiwan dollars to the rescue operation. Formosa Plastics Group, a Taiwanese conglomerate, said it would donate NT$20 million (US$665,912) while Foxconn Technology Group, an important Apple Inc. supplier also known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., pledged NT$10 million. Smartphone maker HTC Corp. and its charity foundation together pledged NT$10 million and computer manufacturer Acer Inc. pledged NT$2 million, the companies said.

Flags throughout the island were ordered to fly at half-mast for the next three days and condolences have flooded social media, where people are forming volunteer groups to help distribute food and hygiene supplies.

The cause of the explosion and the owner of the leaky pipeline are still unknown. Government-owned refiner CPC Corp. said it doesn't own the pipeline. LCY Chemical Corp., a petrochemical maker, which local media reported as the owner of the pipeline, issued a statement that said its pipeline was more than 10 meters from the site of the blast and carried propene, which may not have the smell the residents reported.

The government said it is still too early to determine the cause of the explosion or where the gas leak began because the area is covered with rubble, impeding the research team from thoroughly surveying the grounds and examining the pipes. The complex web of pipes beneath the city makes it difficult to assess the types of pipes damaged and their ownership, the city's spokesman said.

Local brokerage First Financial Holding Co. said the explosion, the worst of this type in Taiwan's history, is unlikely to hit the electronics supply chain in the south. Many suppliers are located in the Kaohsiung Software Park, about 2 kilometers away from the blast area. Some may be hit by temporary outage of electricity and water supply, it said.

Explosions and fires, some caused by gas leaks, have hit petrochemical complexes in Taiwan in the past, though most were contained inside the compounds.

The blast is the second deadly disaster in Taiwan in two weeks. Last Wednesday, a TransAsia flight crashed in an outlying Taiwanese island and killed at least 48 aboard. 

Document WSJO000020140801ea8100336




Shares of HTC open down 1.1 pct after Q3 revenue decline prediction

53 words
31 July 2014
20:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, Aug 1 (Reuters) - Shares of Taiwan's HTC Corp  opened down 1.1 pct but then rose quickly and was trading up 1.9 percent minutes after the opening bell on Friday.               

Released: 2014-8-1T02:10:39.000Z

Document LBA0000020140801ea81000h1


 Shares of HTC open down 1.1 pct after Q3 revenue decline prediction
Reuters, 20:10, 31 July 2014, 192 words, (English)
TAIPEI Aug 1 (Reuters) - Shares of Taiwan's HTC Corp opened down 1.1 pct but then rose quickly and was trading up 1.9 percent minutes after the opening bell on Friday.
Document WCLBA00020140801ea81000gr



Corporate News: Corporate Watch

657 words
1 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
18
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

YUKOS

Russia Must Compensate

Shareholders, Says EU Court

Russia has to pay the former owners of now defunct Russian oil company Yukos 1.87 billion euros ($2.51 billion) in compensation for unfair tax proceedings, the European Court of Human Rights said Thursday.

The ruling on compensation is the ECHR's biggest award to date and comes three years after the court first found that Moscow had violated Yukos's rights to a fair trial and protection of property.

Russia has to pay 1.87 billion euros in compensation for the direct financial damage that Yukos's owners suffered from the unlawful proceeding, which the court said should go to Yukos's former shareholders and their heirs.

Moscow also has to reimburse an extra 300,000 euros in legal costs to the Yukos International Foundation, a company that now houses some of Yukos's remaining assets.

In a blow to Yukos's former owners, however, the court rejected its claim that the unfair tax proceedings led to its liquidation in 2007.

It is because of this assessment that the 1.87 billion euros award falls well short of the 37.98 billion euros in damages Yukos had asked for. It is also significantly less than the $50 billion in damages that its former owners were awarded by a Netherlands-based tribunal this week.

-- Gabriele Steinhauser

and Gregory L. White

---

HTC

Smartphone Maker Expects

Continued Decline in Sales

HTC Corp. forecast continued falling sales in the third quarter, as the Taiwanese high-end smartphone maker faces a challenge from the coming launch of Apple Inc.'s next-generation iPhone.

It will be HTC's 12th straight quarter of falling revenue on an annual basis. Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said the flagship HTC One (M8) smartphone and other products launched in the first half of the year helped boost second-quarter earnings, but sales will slow in the third quarter and the company will need to trim sales and marketing expenses.

HTC will remain profitable in the third quarter, Mr. Chang said.

"Some of our products, after the initial excitement, have settled at a lower level," said Mr. Chang on an investor call. "But the good thing is it is stabilized."

Mr. Chang added he expects HTC to break its three-year slide in revenue in the fourth quarter, with the help of momentum from the flagship line and the introduction of new products.

-- Eva Dou

---

EXXON MOBIL

Earnings Jump by 28%, But Production Declines

Exxon Mobil Corp. said its profit for the second quarter rose 28%, even though the company pumped oil and natural gas at the lowest rate in almost five years.

The U.S.-based energy company was buoyed by higher oil prices, lifting its earnings to $8.78 billion on revenue of $111.65 billion. It also got a boost from higher profits for refining crude and manufacturing chemicals. But its oil and gas output sank 5.7% from a year earlier, the lowest rate since the third quarter of 2009.

The company has said it is weighing the impact of sanctions against Russia announced this week by the U.S. and the European Union, which aim to restrict exports of energy technologies for oil projects.

-- Daniel Gilbert and Tess Stynes

---

DIAGEO

China Slowdown Hits Profit

Diageo PLC, the world's biggest liquor company by sales, on Thursday posted an 8.2% decline in full-year profit, attributing the decline to a collapse of demand in China -- where sales of high-price Johnnie Walker Black Label fell nearly 30% -- and problems in other emerging markets.

Diageo reported net profit of GBP 2.25 billion ($3.81 billion), compared with GBP 2.45 billion a year earlier, as revenue dropped 8.5% to GBP 13.98 billion. Sales in China fell 33%, but there was an improved performance in Western Europe.

-- Peter Evans

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020140731ea8100013


 New products to return Taiwan's HTC to growth by year end
Reuters India, 05:57, 31 July 2014, 515 words, Michael Gold, (English)
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC Corp will return to growth in the final three months of 2014 after a bruising few years that has seen market share dwindle amid steep sales declines.
Document WC45421020140731ea7v0001v

 Android Market Share Hits New Record
WSJ Blogs, 07:26, 31 July 2014, 235 words, By Rolfe Winkler, (English)
Google's Android is extending its dominance over rival mobile-operating systems, including Apple's iOS, new data show.
Smartphones running Android accounted for 85% of global shipments in the second quarter, according to research firm ...
Document WCWSJB0020140731ea7v0038p



BRIEF-Taiwan's HTC posts Q2 net profit of T$2.3 bln

55 words
31 July 2014
05:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

July 31 (Reuters) - HTC Corp

* Says Q2 net profit at T$2.3 billion ($76.8 million)

Source text on Eikon:

Further company coverage:

(US$ = T$29.95) (Reporting by Hong Kong and Singapore newsrooms) 

Released: 2014-7-31T11:28:41.000Z

Document LBA0000020140731ea7v005r5


 BRIEF-Taiwan's HTC posts Q2 net profit of T$2.3 bln
Reuters, 05:28, 31 July 2014, 113 words, (English)
Source text on Eikon:
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock ...
Document WCLBA00020140731ea7v003h3



Taiwan's HTC says sees year-on-year revenue growth in Q4

88 words
31 July 2014
05:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, July 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC said the company will see overall revenue growth in the October to December period, its first quarter of year-on-year growth since the third quarter of 2011.

The company's chief financial officer gave the prediction after the company said that third-quarter revenue this year is likely to decline slightly from the same period of 2013. (Reporting by Michael Gold) 

Released: 2014-7-31T11:15:53.000Z

Document LBA0000020140731ea7v005qi


 UPDATE 2-New products to return Taiwan's HTC to growth by year end
Reuters, 05:57, 31 July 2014, 287 words, Michael Gold, (English)
TAIPEI, July 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC Corp forecast that revenue in the July-September quarter will likely decline as sales of its flagship phone begin to taper off after a strong second quarter.
Document WCLBA00020140731ea7v003ef

 Taiwan's HTC says sees year-on-year revenue growth in Q4
Reuters, 05:15, 31 July 2014, 177 words, (English)
TAIPEI, July 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC said the company will see overall revenue growth in the October to December period, its first quarter of year-on-year growth since the third quarter of 2011.
Document WCLBA00020140731ea7v003bt



Asia
HTC Predicts Continued Decline in Sales; Continued Decline in Sales Predicted Due to Stiff Competition in the Smartphone Market.

By Eva Dou 
721 words
31 July 2014
01:45
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. forecast Thursday continued falling sales in the third quarter, as the Taiwanese high-end smartphone maker faces a challenge from the coming launch of Apple Inc.'s next-generation iPhone.

It will be HTC's 12th consecutive quarter of declining revenue on an annual basis. The company's Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said the flagship HTC One (M8) smartphone and other products launched in the first half of the year helped boost second quarter earnings, but sales will slow in the third quarter and the firm will need to trim sales and marketing expenses.

The firm will remain profitable in the third quarter, with earnings-per-share of 0.05 New Taiwan dollars to 0.69 New Taiwan dollars, compared to last year's loss, Mr. Chang said.

"Some of our products, after the initial excitement, have settled at a lower level," said Mr. Chang on an investor call. "But the good thing is it is stabilized."

Mr. Chang added he expects HTC to break its three-year slide in revenue in the fourth quarter, with the help of momentum from the flagship line and the introduction of new products.

HTC faces the challenge of maintaining its ground in upcoming months against the launches of the iPhone and new devices from other rivals like Samsung Electronics Co. Apple is gearing up for the first major refresh of the iPhone in two years, which means the iPhone will be a more formidable foe this year for HTC and others than it was last year.

HTC said Thursday it expects revenue in the third quarter of 42 billion New Taiwan dollars to 47 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$1.4 billion-US$1.57 billion), at best matching the year-earlier quarter. The company forecast earnings per share of 0.05 New Taiwan dollars to 0.69 New Taiwan dollars for the quarter, down from 2.74 New Taiwan dollars in the second quarter.

Mr. Chang said the company would save costs by cutting some long-term marketing expenses and switching to "more tactical" marketing. He said there wouldn't be cuts to "human capital." He also ruled out selling products at a loss.

HTC posted its first full-year net loss last year, as it lost sales to Samsung and Chinese smartphone makers. The company has attributed its market share loss partly to marketing missteps.

In the second quarter, HTC posted net profit of 2.3 billion New Taiwan dollars, up 84% from the same quarter in 2013 and better than a net loss of 1.88 billion New Taiwan dollars in the previous quarter. However, the company's revenue slipped to 65.1 billion New Taiwan dollars in the second quarter from 70.7 billion New Taiwan dollars a year earlier.

The global leader in Android smartphone shipments three years ago, HTC has seen a steep fall in market share as the competitive field thickened with rivals in South Korea and China. Yuanta Financial analyst Jeff Pu estimates the company's global market share is now around 2%.

The company has also faced heavy executive turnover, most recently, with the marketing and engineering chiefs stepping down from those positions. Analysts say the company still needs to prove it can stay profitable on a smaller scale with the sales decline.

"Over long term, HTC may be able to position itself as a niche, high-end player," Mr. Pu said, citing the company's strong engineering but lack of scale. Mr. Pu and other analysts note that succeeding as a profitable niche player in the cutthroat smartphone market will be no easy feat. "Actually no one has this kind of position right now."

Mr. Chang said the company didn't want to only sell in the high-end, although he didn't give details on how the company could regain market share.

"For HTC, to start gaining market share is important," he said. "We have gone through a transition period in 2013."

HTC returned to an operating profit in the second quarter after three consecutive quarters of operating losses, with the help of the launch of its new flagship HTC One (M8) smartphone and cost cuts.

Document WSJO000020140731ea7v002gz




Taiwan's HTC sees Q3 revenue T$42-47 bln vs T$47 bln year earlier

139 words
31 July 2014
02:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

TAIPEI, July 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC Corp  forecast that revenue in the July-September quarter will likely decline as sales of its flagship phone begin to taper off after a strong second quarter.               

Total third-quarter revenue is likely to fall between T$42 billion ($1.40 billion) to T$47 billion, compared with T$47.05 billion in the same period of 2013, the company said Thursday ahead of the smartphone maker's quarterly investor conference.               

Gross profit margin in the third quarter is expected to be in the range of 22.5 to 23 percent, it said.               

HTC had previously reported higher-than-expected second-quarter net profit of T$2.26 billion.               

Released: 2014-7-31T08:19:58.000Z

Document LBA0000020140731ea7v004ah


 Taiwan's HTC sees Q3 revenue T$42-47 bln vs T$47 bln year earlier
Reuters, 02:19, 31 July 2014, 237 words, (English)
TAIPEI, July 31 (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC Corp forecast that revenue in the July-September quarter will likely decline as sales of its flagship phone begin to taper off after a strong second quarter.
Document WCLBA00020140731ea7v002h1
 Page 123 of 124     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

