<title:>By Paul Mozur and Juro Osawa 
<Date:>12 November 2013
<Content:>
HANGZHOU, China -- The country's biggest online shopping day of the year -- also the biggest in the world -- just set another record.
After only about half a day, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. said sales on its shopping sites had topped $3.1 billion -- last year's total for the one-day 11.11 Shopping Festival.
By the end of Monday, the company had recorded 35.19 billion yuan ($5.78 billion) in transactions.
Last year on Nov. 11, Chinese online shoppers spent more in 24 hours than the $2.5 billion that Americans spent online on Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined.
The Alibaba Nov. 11 sale is a tradition that started in 2009, when 27 merchants on the company's Tmall site offered discounts to perk up sales during an otherwise slow period.
This year's jump in sales showed the rising power of the Chinese consumer and the increasing presence of e-commerce in a country where the brick-and-mortar retail infrastructure isn't as well-developed as it is in the U.S. It also shows the rise of Chinese brands, with smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. and electronics and appliances supplier Haier Electronics Group Co. among the top sellers.
In the opening three minutes, Xiaomi said it sold 110,000 of its new Mi 3 phone and another 110,000 of its Hongmi phone, totaling 178 million yuan in transactions. After half an hour, the company's Tmall store had 300 million yuan in transactions, it said.
Alibaba set up a series of screens to track sales and orders at its headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou. At one point, bright streaks on one screen showed orders flying across a map of China. At the center of the screens a large counter tallied total sales.
In the first six minutes Monday, transactions exceeded one billion yuan, the company said. Last year, it took 37 minutes to top one billion yuan.
But "the numbers aren't what we care about today. What we care about today is what is behind the numbers," Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma told reporters at the company's headquarters. "Behind the numbers we can see the power of the market."
He said more competition and diversity in e-commerce would help strengthen what remains a burgeoning industry in China.
Mr. Ma said the company would look closely at the company's assessment over the next week of how it would perform under the stress of receiving 171 million orders over 24 hours.
High sales volume has proved a challenge for China's underdeveloped logistics infrastructure, which lacks modernized warehouses, advanced computer systems or even a unified licensing regime to allow for the efficient delivery of millions of packages across a country the size of the U.S.
At a logistics center run by SF Express Co. near the Hangzhou airport, manager Lu Qi said orders would begin picking up in the evening and remain heavy for the rest of the week. The center, which has around 750 full-time staff, hired 277 additional workers for the week to ensure that SF Express could deal with the heavy traffic.
Mr. Lu said the center, which processes orders for air transport across the country, only began using a computerized tracking system to process packages last year.
"China's Internet penetration rate is still not as high as developed countries, it's only at 45%, so we can ensure this kind of growth" yearly on Nov. 11 for at lease a few years, said Tmall head Jeff Zhang. Alibaba's Tmall hosts online storefronts for 70,000 merchants, including such global brands as Nike Inc. and Gap Inc.
Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce company, is preparing what could be the biggest initial public offering of an Internet company since Facebook Inc.'s $16 billion market debut last year. Alibaba hasn't decided on the date or location of its IPO.
Mr. Ma didn't comment on when or where Alibaba would list its shares, saying the company's current focus is on operations.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
