<title:>By Lorraine Luk   
<Date:>30 October 2013
<Content:>
First it was making iPhones and iPads for Apple Inc. Now, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Apple's biggest assembler in Asia, has started selling its own brand of mobile accessories for the new iPhones.
The move is the latest effort by Hon Hai to seek new avenues of growth amid increasing competition from smaller rivals such as Pegatron Corp. Pegatron makes the majority of the iPhone 5C smartphones from Apple and the iPad Mini tablet computers, according to people familiar with the situation.
Hon Hai, also known as Foxconn Technology, has made no secret of its plan to diversify its business and client base as major customers including Apple and Microsoft Corp. are looking to place more orders to competitors.
Hon Hai Chairman Terry Gou said in June that the company plans to improve its growth and profitability with new "high-value services" including e-commerce and own-brand electronic accessories.
Last week, Hon Hai's Hong Kong-listed unit, FIH Mobile Ltd., had its first large-scale launch for the company's own mobile accessories brand called "Coverbank" in Taiwan, shipping iPhone cases to Taiwan's major carriers that began selling new iPhones.
FIH Mobile is expanding its own-brand accessories business through sales partnerships with Taiwan carriers Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. , Chunghwa Telecom Co. and Taiwan Mobile Co., company officials said.
Under the partnership, local carriers will offer Coverbank mobile accessories including casings for the iPhone 5S as well as power connectors for Apple's gadgets at their outlets in Taiwan.
"We have a flexible business model. We will continue to manufacture handset accessories under other customers' brands. But if our brand customers like the design of Coverbank's accessories, we can sell the sole distribution rights to them," said an executive at FIH Mobile who declined to be named. "We will not expand our own-brand mobile accessories operation at the expense of the bread-and-butter contract manufacturing business."
After the large-scale launch in its home market, FIH Mobile's Coverbank plans to expand to China and Hong Kong markets this year and other Asian countries including Singapore, Korea and Japan next year through local retail distributors.
In China, Coverbank will also sell mobile accessories for iPhones, Samsung Electronics Co. and Chinese handset maker Xiaomi through Alibaba's online store Tmall from next month, the FIH executive said.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
