<title:>Business
Lorraine Luk
<Date:>28 March 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG¡XHon Hai Precision Industry Co., the biggest assembler of Apple Inc. products, said Friday its profit last year rose 13%, helped by an increase in iPad and iPhone sales.
The world's largest contract manufacturer for electronics, commonly known as Foxconn Technology Group, also unveiled nearly $90 million in investments in manufacturing and software development in China, as well as two fundraising measures, as it girds for tougher competition and a possible sales slowdown. Its sales last year rose just 1%.
Taiwan-based Hon Hai, which earns more than 40% of its revenue from Apple, has been seeking new avenues of growth, as income from contract manufacturing slows. The company has been making a push into software development and telecommunications services, as well as entering the retail market by selling its mobile accessories under its own Coverbank brand.
Hon Hai's 2013 profit was 106.70 billion new Taiwan dollars ($3.5 billion), up from NT$94.76 billion a year earlier. Its revenue edged up to 3.95 trillion new Taiwan dollars from NT$3.91 trillion.
Hon Hai's results were underpinned by demand from Apple, which sold 51 million iPhones in last year's final quarter, up 7% from a year earlier. The Cupertino, Calif.-based company also sold a record 26 million iPads in the quarter, up from 22.9 million.
But Apple has been facing stiff competition, and there is growing skepticism that it can repeat its successful innovations in new product categories¡Xas it did with the iPhone in 2007 and the iPad in 2010.
Faced with the possibility of a slowdown in orders from its biggest customer, Hon Hai has been busy finding ways of trimming costs to operate more efficiently and improve its profit margin.
The company, which employs over one million factory workers across China, is accelerating automation of factories, announcing plans on Friday to invest $15 million in a robot-manufacturing and sales unit in China. The company also said it will invest $30 million in a software-development unit and another $42 million to set up a new trading-and-manufacturing unit for components in China.
Hon Hai is also expanding manufacturing in lower-cost inland China, building facilities in the central and western provinces of Chengdu, Wuhan and Zhengzhou. In those areas, the typical wage could be two-thirds or less of levels for the more-developed coastal provinces, analysts said.
Hon Hai said it plans to raise funds by selling global depositary receipts to replenish its working capital. Such receipts are used as a proxy for stock, letting companies raise money in markets where their securities don't trade.
Hon Hai also said it will issue up to NT$24 billion in corporate bonds to repay short-term debt. The company didn't provide a timetable, or a value for the global depositary receipt issue.
A turnaround at its handset manufacturing unit, FIH Mobile Ltd., also helped boost the company's earnings. Hong Kong-listed FIH Mobile, which serves customers besides Apple, said last week it swung to a full-year net profit of $77.7 million after reporting net losses for the past four years.
FIH Mobile had reported losses as major customers such as Nokia Corp. and Motorola Mobility continued to lose ground in the fast-growing smartphone market. However, in a bid to turn around its operations, FIH recently signed on new customers, including BlackBerry Ltd. and China's Xiaomi Inc., a startup that has rocked the Chinese smartphone market
Earlier this week, smaller rival Pegatron Corp. said its fourth-quarter profit rose 22% as the company benefited from its growing role as an Apple assembler. Although Pegatron previously made some older iPhone models, last year was the first time Pegatron was the primary manufacturer of a new iPhone model, the 5C, according to people familiar with the matter.
