<title:>Tech
Sony's Smartphone Struggle; Cut in Mobile-Phone Outlook Casts a Shadow over Electronics Recovery
<Date:>31 July 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XSony Corp. sharply cut its forecast for sales of smartphones, one of the pillars on which the Japanese technology giant had hoped to rebuild its troubled electronics business.
The move was a blot on otherwise encouraging results for the first quarter ended June 30: Sony on Thursday posted net income of ?26.8 billion ($261 million), thanks to upbeat sales of videogames and movies, defying analyst expectations of a loss. Sales rose 5.8% from a year earlier to ?1.8 trillion, while operating profit nearly doubled to ?69.8 billion.
Sony's troubled TV business stayed profitable, and the company said it remained on track to break a 10-year streak of annual losses there, although the company did trim its TV sales forecast.
But Sony's mobile-phone unit, which a year ago had been the company's most profitable electronics division, posted an operating loss amid sagging sales. The company cut its annual sales target to 43 million handsets from the 50 million it had predicted in May. Instead of making a profit, the mobile division will merely break even this year, Sony said. In the fiscal year that ended in March, Sony sold 39 million phones and the division posted a profit of ?12.6 billion.
"Our estimate in May was optimistic," said Sony's chief financial officer, Kenichiro Yoshida, at a news conference.
Sony stuck with its forecast for a companywide loss of ?50 billion for the current fiscal year. It would be its sixth loss in seven years.
The dialing back of Sony's smartphone ambitions represents a setback to CEO Kazuo Hirai's efforts to revive the company's reputation for innovation.
Sony executives have said the company needs to expand its smartphone business, because many of the areas in which it competes¡Xfrom cameras to videogames and movies¡Xcome together in mobile devices.
Mr. Yoshida said the mobile unit is reviewing its midterm business plan, and might have to lower its forecast again, to an annual loss.
To keep the business profitable, Sony plans to cut costs by streamlining its smartphone lineup and slowing the pace of product introductions, Mr. Yoshida said. He added that Sony isn't considering an exit from smartphones, but it will be more selective in terms of the countries it targets and its models.
To some extent, Sony is suffering from a problem similar to that confronting Samsung Electronics Co., which on Thursday reported a steep drop in operating profit because of slowing smartphone sales. Though Samsung sold about eight times as many smartphones as Sony during the April-June quarter, both companies are facing pressure from Apple Inc.'s iPhones at the high end of the market and from upstart Chinese brands at the low end.
Three Chinese smartphone makers that rank between No. 3 and No. 5 globally in terms of market share¡XHuawei Technologies Co., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Xiaomi Inc.¡Xall made sizable gains in the latest quarter, according to data from Counterpoint, a technology research firm. While Huawei's smartphone shipments nearly doubled, to 20.6 million, Sony's fell to 9.4 million from 9.6 million, giving it a market share of about 3.1%. Among the leading brands, it was the only one to post a decline.
Smartphone sales in Latin America were particularly weak, Sony said.
A problem for Sony is a lack of promotion via U.S. cellular carriers, an important route for sales. Among the four major U.S. networks, only T-Mobile US Inc. sells Sony's Xperia phones directly. Sony has approached the others¡XVerizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc. and Sprint Corp.¡Xabout possible joint sales efforts, three people familiar with the matter said.
Sony trimmed its sales forecast for its troubled TV business, saying it would sell 15.5 million sets in the full year, down from 16 million expected in May. But the company said it could still achieve its goal of making the business profitable this year, by getting it to operate more efficiently. Sony made its TV arm into a separate unit in July. The segment that includes TVs posted a ?7.7 billion profit in the latest quarter, compared with a ?3.4 billion profit a year earlier.
Mr. Yoshida said Sony needed more structural reform, because its electronics business was still generating a loss during the April-June quarter.
Overall, analysts applauded Mr. Yoshida's continued push to cut costs.
"In our view, the electronics business is Sony's Achilles' heel,'' wrote Atul Goyal, an analyst at Jefferies & Co., in a note to investors. "We maintain that it needs to shrink its ambitions in this ultracompetitive space, and we are pleased to see CFO Yoshida-San is doing/enforcing exactly that."
Sony's videogame business performed well during the period, with strong sales of the PlayStation 4 console and additional fees from users playing online. The segment posted a profit of ?4.3 billion, compared with a loss of ?16.4 billion last year.
The movie business marked a ?7.8 billion profit, up from ?3.7 billion last year. "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" performed well, though not quite as well as hoped, Sony said.
Mayumi Negishi contributed to this article.
