<title:>Simon Montlake   
<Date:>28 October 2013
<Content:>
Hollywood is schooled in the ways of video pirates, from file-sharing sites like the Pirate Bay to street-corner DVD sellers. Rarely, though, do Tinseltown's targets warmly invite studios to a "Go to Hollywood" seminar on U.S. soil.
"Future TV is dedicated to innovatively propelling the growth of the OTT [over-the-top] ecosystem," read an invitation sent in August to six major studios for a seminar in Los Angeles. "Hollywood, we are coming!"
How do you say "chutzpah" in Chinese? Future TV is one of seven firms licensed to stream content into Chinese homes via the Internet to set-top boxes and smart TVs. ("Over-the-top" refers to video delivered outside of a cable or satellite service.) It claims to offer 1.5 million hours of content, of which half is high-definition. But among U.S. studios it is notorious for uploading hundreds of copyrighted movies and evading tens of millions of dollars in licensing fees. Chinese production houses also say they're being cheated. "If you ask anyone in China they'll tell you Future TV is a pirate," says a U.S. studio executive in Beijing.
Future pitches itself as a fledgling that needs Hollywood's support. Yet its biggest shareholder is CCTV, China's state-owned broadcaster, which enjoys huge subsidies and sells $3.6 billion a year in advertising. Future's other investor is Tencent Holdings, China's largest Internet firm, with $9.7 billion in revenue. And Future's main hardware partner is Xiaomi Corp., a midprice-smartphone maker that outsells Apple's iPhone in China. A Xiaomi set-top box costs only $50 and streams free content, from Chinese costume dramas to U.S. blockbusters. Xiaomi expects to sell a million boxes this year in a market expected to sell 10 million overall. Partners like these help to explain why ?Future readily thumbs its nose at Hollywood.
Ironically, Hollywood's own lobbying group, the Motion Picture Association of America, helped to introduce Future execs to the studios during a February visit. Once bitten, twice shy: Future canceled its Hollywood seminar after studios demurred, though its executives went ahead with their visit. In anticipation Future took down unauthorized content, such as Jurassic Park 3D and Mr. Bean's Holiday, a Universal title that had been Xiaomi's most-played movie.
Despite its name, Future is a throwback. Many Chinese video sites and cable channels now pay for popular imported TV shows and movies, says Kristian Kender, a media consultant in Beijing. Tencent signed a licensing deal in September with Disney to stream movies on its video-on-demand service. Kender puts the total market for nontheatrical content (everything but box office) at $60 million to $70 million a year, a pittance compared with what it could be. One studio said it makes more from home viewing in Indonesia than it does in China, whose economy is ten times the size. Asked about the contradiction between its Disney deal and its investment in Future, a Tencent spokesman declined comment.
TRENDING
What the 51 million Forbes.com users are talking about. For a deeper dive go to Forbes.com/TECHNOLOGY
PERSON
ROSS ULBRICHT
The FBI busted the alleged mastermind behind the $1.2 billion drug-trafficking site Silk Road. Friends say he was just a mild-mannered libertarian materials scientist. Hello, son of Walter White!
COMPANY
TWITTER
Neither snow nor rain nor government shutdown nor fears of a Facebook-like fiasco will stop the messaging service from its cash-gusher IPO (see story).
IDEA
Long-String Search
Google¡¦s first update to its search algorithm in three years is capable of handling more complex queries, especially as people speak longer searches into their phones.
