<title:>Phone Maker HTC Points Back to Black
<Date:>7 May 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI -- Once a leading mobile-phone maker has been knocked off its throne, can it ever come back?
That is the question facing smartphone maker HTC Corp. as it forecast Tuesday a return to profit in the second quarter but warned its revenue would continue to fall.
For many handset makers, the track record isn't good. Experts say that few except Apple Inc. and Motorola Mobility have pulled off turnarounds, and Motorola's reprieve was temporary. In both cases, the key was producing megahit products: the iPhone and the Razr.
"Very few companies have been able to withstand this kind of spiral," said Alvin Kwock, J.P. Morgan's Asia head of technology hardware, adding that HTC will need an innovative product that competitors can't easily counter.
Just three years ago, HTC was the world's leading smartphone maker using Google Inc.'s Android operating system, but it has struggled in recent years to match sales with Samsung Electronics Co. and low-cost Chinese competitors. In March, the company unveiled a high-end flagship smartphone called the HTC One (M8). The device features a sleek metal design, and the company is betting that the new smartphone will help reverse declining sales.
Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said Tuesday that HTC is on the mend. The company has worked to smooth out supply-chain problems for its high-end devices, and has introduced smartphones priced as low as $145 this quarter as it begins to outsource some production to contract manufacturers in Taiwan and China to cut costs. It has also hired Samsung's former U.S. marketing chief, Paul Golden, as a consultant, in an effort to shore up marketing.
"We're seeing an encouraging sign, a good start. [The question is] how we sustain it," said Mr. Chang.
HTC said it expects to return to profit in the second quarter after three quarters of operating losses, but forecast revenue will fall to between 65 billion New Taiwan dollars and NT$70 billion (US$2.16 billion and US$2.32 billion), from NT$70.7 billion a year earlier. The company also said it is selling a 9.5% stake in a Chinese private-equity fund for US$69 million, which will result in a pretax gain of US$2 million in the second quarter.
HTC got its first big break in 2007 amid a product vacuum. After the launch of Apple's iPhone in 2007, HTC was the first to provide a viable alternative based on the open-source Android operating system. The success helped HTC rise from a fledgling Taiwanese brand into the world's largest smartphone vendor by shipments in 2011.
"When HTC was doing well, it was because it had an early alternative to the iPhones, not because it had a strong global brand," said Willy Shih, a Harvard Business School professor who studies Asian technology companies.
HTC's fortunes changed when Samsung began to tap its massive marketing purse with the launch of its Galaxy smartphones and as an influx of low-cost Chinese competitors such as Xiaomi Inc. flooded the market. While HTC has sought to shore up its marketing to counter Samsung, it faces the reality of a shrinking budget.
Tighter finances have also made it more difficult for HTC to retain talent. Most recently, the company said design chief Scott Croyle has stepped down.
Analysts say HTC's prospects aren't so bleak for at least the next quarter or two because significant rivals like Apple haven't yet launched competing devices.
"HTC's supply-chain management is much better this year, so I think the second and third quarter should be OK," said Barclays analyst Dale Gai. "The challenge will be the fourth quarter."
Mr. Chang also said Tuesday that HTC is submitting for shareholder approval a plan to issue as many as five million restricted shares to employees. The company's shares rose 3.6% to close at NT$175 ahead of the announcement. Still, HTC's shares have lost more than 85% of their value since April 2011, and its global smartphone market share has slid to less than 2%, according to analysts' estimates. HTC's revenue fell to a five-year low in the first quarter.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
