<title:>China's Richest: Jack Ma
<Date:>24 September 2014
<Content:>
Alibaba's blockbuster $25 billion stock offering has made Jack Ma the wealthiest man in China, according to a new survey, as investor enthusiasm for Chinese technology names enriches a new generation of Internet moguls.
Mr. Ma, founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and his family have a net worth of about $25 billion following last week's initial public offering, according to the Hurun Rich List, an annual survey compiled by the Shanghai-based research group Hurun Report and released on Tuesday. That puts him at the top of a list long dominated by property magnates. An Alibaba spokeswoman declined to comment.
Half of this year's top 10 were technology executives, including the top executives at Internet conglomerate Tencent Holdings Ltd., search engine provider Baidu Inc., e-commerce website JD.com Inc. and smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Only two major property investors made the list amid a swooning Chinese real-estate market.
The shift reflects a flood of dollars into China's rapidly growing Internet sector, as investors bet on firms such as Alibaba growing at a fast clip at home and becoming more globally competitive. China has seen a record 15 Internet IPOs so far this year, according to data provider Dealogic, raising $29.2 billion, including Alibaba's $25 billion. By contrast, the four Chinese Internet IPOs over the same period last year raised a combined $91 million.
"This IT boom has really taken off in the last year, when Chinese players seem to be bringing bigger ideas to market," said Hurun founder Rupert Hoogewerf.
Rui Ma, a Greater China partner with venture-capital investor 500 Startups, said the flood of new money into China's IT sector this year has come both from foreign investors excited about the rapid growth of the likes of Alibaba and from domestic investors looking for a place to put their money as yields fall in real estate and manufacturing.
"Those in traditional industries have really seen a hit to their wealth from the general slowdown," she said, adding that she has seen startup valuations in Beijing pass those of Silicon Valley this year. "A lot of wealthy Chinese are turning to tech for investing."
In a recent interview, Joseph Chen, chairman and chief executive of Chinese social-media company Renren Inc., called the startup market in China "very fluffy," though he said the subsequent IPOs by many of those new companies often justified the values.
Shares of Tencent and Baidu are both up more than 40% over the past 12 months. Tencent founder Pony Ma was No. 5 on the list with wealth of $18.1 billion, while Baidu founder Robin Li was No. 6 with $17.5 billion. They companies didn't respond to requests for comment.
In May, the IPO of online retailer JD.com Inc. jumped 20% when it began trading, giving the company a market value of $28 billion. JD.com founder Richard Liu is China's ninth richest person with $8.8 billion, Hurun said. "International investors appreciate the transformational effects that e-commerce is having in China," JD.com spokesman Josh Gartner said.
The Hurun list valued Mr. Ma's wealth based on both his minority stake in Alibaba and his stake in the company's electronic-payment affiliate Alipay.
Mr. Ma edged out No. 2 Wang Jianlin, chairman of real-estate developer and entertainment company Dalian Wanda Group Corp. Wanda didn't respond to a request for comment.
---
Esther Fung in Shanghai and Lilian Lin and Carlos Tejada in Beijing contributed to this article.
(See related articles: "Alibaba's Strategy Buoys Some Startups" and "Heard on the Street: An Expensive Search for India's Alibaba" -- WSJA Sept. 24, 2014)
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
