<title:>By Evelyn M. Rusli 
<Date:>25 August 2014
<Content:>
At 23, James Proud is a rising Silicon Valley tech entrepreneur who has raised nearly $13 million in funding -- none of which is from institutional investors.
His company, Hello, raised $10.5 million from a circle of well-connected angel investors, some of whom wrote million-dollar checks. And in a crowdfunding campaign that ended Friday, he raised an additional $2.4 million on Kickstarter, via nearly 20,000 backers who either donated money or preordered his flagship product: Sense, a sleep tracker slated to begin shipping to Kickstarter backers in November for $99.
The device, which eventually will retail for $129, is a small orb that sits on your night stand and measures the pollen in the air, humidity, the light in the room, any sounds and other disturbances at night. It also comes with a small disc, called the pill, that is attached to the sleeper's pillow and tracks movement.
Sense didn't break any records on the crowdfunding site. Ouya, the game console, got $8.6 million; and Pebble, a smartwatch, was the No. 1, with $10.3 million raised in 2012.
But Mr. Proud's path should give some big venture-capital firms pause, as founders like him find there are more ways to raise eight figures without traditional venture-capital firms. In 2011, at age 20, Mr. Proud, was a member of the Thiel Fellows, a group of 20 teenagers paid by billionaire investor Peter Thiel to skip college and pursue entrepreneurship or other projects.
Mr. Proud's circle of backers -- of the non-Kickstarter variety -- include some well-known names in the industry, such as David Marcus, the former head of PayPal; Dan Rose, a Facebook executive; Aaron Sittig, a former designer of Facebook; Shakil Khan, an adviser to startups like Spotify; and Hugo Barra, a Xiaomi executive. According to Mr. Proud, the investors are people, often friends, who offered strategic advantages because of their networks or experience. They're also letting the 23-year-old retain significant control.
"If someone gives you the terms you want and the control you want, you take that," Mr. Proud says.
That isn't to say he would never turn to venture capital if he ever needed the money down the road to expand, he says.
Mr. Proud, a native of South London, says the structure has helped him run his company the way he wants to. In San Francisco's Portrero Hill neighborhood, Hello's cavernous office is filled with 20 employees. Half are hardware experts from companies such as Foxconn and Garmin, and the other half are software brains. Sketches of the Sense globe and complex formulas are scrawled all over the white walls.
Founded in September 2012, Hello spent about 18 months working on a wearable device, but it decided to scrap those plans in March after it became clear from conversations with prospective customers that a sleep-centric device was compelling enough. Four months later, Sense launched on Kickstarter.
While Mr. Proud doesn't consider Kickstarter to be similar to a fundraising round, since most of the money will go to manufacturing, he says the site gave the team negotiating power with manufacturers and, more important, a hyper-engaged community to provide feedback.
Kickstarter "certainly gives people more options," Mr. Proud says.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
