<title:>Corporate News: Japan's SoftBank Girds for U.S. Fight
<Date:>19 August 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO -- SoftBank Corp. gave a glimpse of its plans to tackle the U.S. cellphone market, unveiling a deal to develop low-cost smartphones for its Sprint Corp. unit and a new service that would allow unlimited downloads from select applications.
SoftBank said Monday that together with fellow Japanese company Sharp Corp. it has developed a smartphone with near-frameless displays that it plans to sell through Sprint. It also introduced App Pass, a service that it plans to launch later this month, which will have a lineup of 100 applications as diverse as games, recipes and free access to news.
SoftBank and U.S.-based Sprint will offer the handset, the Aquos Crystal, exclusively. App Pass will be preinstalled on the handsets, the Japanese telecommunications company said.
While SoftBank didn't disclose pricing for the U.S. market, its pricing in Japan offers a look at the kind of services it is trying to bring to the U.S. to set Sprint apart from Verizon Communications Inc. and AT&T Inc.
In Japan, for example, SoftBank said the handset will be offered free of charge to new users switching from other carriers. For $3.61 a month, users would have access to apps that would cost $390 to download separately. As part of the plan, users also would receive $4.88 of credit to use for in-app purchases. Sprint is expected to announce a similar plan in the U.S. on Tuesday.
After shelving plans to buy smaller carrier T-Mobile US Inc. earlier this month, Sprint is studying price plans to stop subscriber losses. Sprint, which has previously focused on a network overhaul, is ready to pare costs and engage its rivals in fierce price competition under its new chief executive, Marcelo Claure. The company has been unprofitable since 2007, and winning customers will be a challenge. Many prospective users have their connections locked up in contracts, while rivals already offer low-cost plans. Cable rollouts of Wi-Fi networks also might threaten cellular-network demand.
"We can use our scale to gain price competitiveness and win exclusive agreements," said Maki Tahara, who heads SoftBank's marketing strategy.
SoftBank also said Monday it plans to sell 400 billion yen ($3.91 billion) of bonds to individual investors, which some analysts took as a sign the company is looking for further expansion. At the time SoftBank abandoned its bid for T-Mobile, the company was looking at more than a dozen other acquisition targets, people close to SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son have said.
The handset deal provides a boost for Sharp, which had all but abandoned global phone sales and has been vying with Sony Corp. for a distant No. 2 spot in the Japanese smartphone market, after Apple Inc. Sharp sold only 5.5 million handsets in the fiscal year ended in March, after four straight years of declines. The SoftBank deal will help it achieve a sales goal of 6.3 million units this year, it said.
The deal comes as Sony, which has been trying to get a better foothold in the U.S. smartphone market, had been wooing Sprint as well.
Sony has approached Sprint about selling Sony's Xperia smartphone in the U.S., according to people familiar with the talks. Sony, which had pegged hopes for a turnaround on its mobile operations, had also approached Verizon and AT&T, touting the new phone's advanced camera and audio technologies, they said.
The status of those talks wasn't clear Monday, but Sony last month cut its sales forecast for smartphones, and said its mobile unit might need to lower its forecast to an annual loss.
"We had received a number of offers from different vendors," said SoftBank's Yoshiaki Adachi, a manager in charge of product design. "That we would be able to make this offering exclusive was a large draw."
Future tie-ups with other phone makers are a possibility, he said, declining to elaborate.
Sony declined to comment on any talks with Sprint, adding that the company doesn't comment on speculation.
Japan's phone makers, pioneers in mobile Internet technology, are fighting for relevance. Abroad, they are hemmed in by Apple Inc.'s iPhones at the high end of the market while Chinese brands such as Huawei Technologies Co., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Xiaomi Inc. are gaining market share at the low end. At home, the iPhone is increasing its market dominance with a 67.4% share after NTT DoCoMo Inc.'s decision last fall to begin supplying the smartphone.
"We need the U.S. market to truly establish ourselves in the telecom sector. Japan is not enough," Sharp President Kozo Takahashi said.
---
Takashi Mochizuki contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
