<title:>Business
Shopping in China: Are Any of These Real?; In Looking for a Xiaomi Phone, Fakes Outnumber Authentic Ones
Marc Lajoie
<Date:>28 April 2014
<Content:>
About a year ago, I got a lesson in how ubiquitous and sophisticated counterfeits are in China.
It started with a shopping expedition for a Xiaomi phone in Zhongguancun (pronounced jong-gwan-tsun), Beijing's foremost electronics district.
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi's popular handsets offer top-end hardware at a relatively low price, and fun and customizable software. The only caveat: They are hard to get. Xiaomi sells a lot of its phones online, but their official website is often sold out. When my girlfriend asked me to help her buy one, we headed to Zhongguancun.
Zhongguancun is full of aggressive, grabby hawkers, but also official resellers of big-name brands, both domestic and foreign. We fought our way through the laptop and camera salespeople to the area where smartphones were sold.
There were ads for Xiaomi everywhere we looked. We found a friendly seller, negotiated a price for a brand new Xiaomi, and headed home triumphant.
Back at my apartment, our sense of triumph evaporated. There was something wrong with the phone. The system refused to update, apps started crashing, all sorts of details were off. The camera had the wrong number of megapixels. The storage capacity was wrong. The app store was named "Feiliu" instead of "Mi Market."
After some research on the Internet I understood what was wrong. We had been fooled. The phone was a knockoff.
We charged back to Zhongguancun, found the seller, and got a refund.
On our way out, we came across a more reputable looking store with a sign advertising Xiaomi phones and decided to try again.
The store could have been an Apple shop, with its clean surfaces and white lights. The young clerk brought out a Xiaomi box and opened it up. I asked to try the phone out. Armed with my new-found knowledge of fake Xiaomis, I navigated to the app store to check the name. It was "Feiliu."
"It's a fake," I said.
"Oh, you want the real one?" The seller seemed surprised. "You know, they're more expensive."
We told him we did, indeed, want a real one. He made several calls, went off and came back with another box. I checked the phone and everything was in order. Mission accomplished.
Xiaomi wasn't immediately available for comment.
A few months later, we decided to get a Xiaomi for my girlfriend's sister. Again, we headed to Zhongguancun.
We found a new seller, who brought out a phone. I immediately outed it as a fake. The seller got another phone. I checked the app store and storage capacity, and all seemed well.
It wasn't until we took that second phone home that we realized we had been upgraded to a better grade of fake.
This time, it was much harder to identify. I followed an online guide for detecting fakes, which instructed me to boot the phone in recovery mode. What should have loaded was Xiaomi's custom Mi-recovery software. Instead, I got a text-based menu that the online guide identified as a tell for counterfeits.
We headed back to Zhongguancun, and found the seller.
"It's not real," I said.
"It's a real phone," he answered, splitting hairs.
Eventually, he relented and conceded I was right. He wouldn't give a refund, but offered to replace the phone with an authentic Xiaomi if we paid the difference.
We took the phone home and subjected it to all the tests of the online guide. It checked out.
But a few days after we gave the phone to my girlfriend's sister, it started having problems. When I examined it, I heard an electric pop, and the screen went blank.
It was a real Xiaomi phone... but it was defective.
