<title:>Baidu Sets Up Shop In Google's Backyard
<Date:>19 May 2014
<Content:>
SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Chinese search company Baidu Inc. is often known as the Google of China. Now, it is setting up shop in Google's backyard.
Baidu said Friday it would invest $300 million in a new research-and-development center in Silicon Valley that would have almost 200 employees and be led by Andrew Ng, most recently the head of Stanford University's artificial-intelligence lab. Mr. Ng, who also helped Google Inc. set up its artificial-intelligence efforts, was part of the research team that built a computer that taught itself to recognize cats after looking at millions of YouTube videos.
The move highlights the growing ambition and influence of China's largest Internet companies. "There's been this old stereotype that other countries copy U.S. technology," Mr. Ng said in an interview, "[but] there's tons of stuff that Baidu has done that just isn't anywhere else in the world."
China's Internet companies have grown to be some of the largest Web companies in the world, in part because the Chinese government blocks foreign-based services such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. The Chinese companies' users are still mostly located in China, but they are increasingly active in Silicon Valley through investments and recruitment initiatives.
Baidu rivals Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Tencent Holdings Ltd. both have offices near Silicon Valley that spearheaded growing efforts to acquire and invest in local startups. Alibaba has filed for an initial public offering of stock in the U.S. that might become the largest listing in history. Last year, Chinese smartphone startup Xiaomi Inc. hired executive Hugo Barra away from Google's Android mobile-software arm.
Baidu's new lab will focus on the development of artificial intelligence and deep learning, a field that has recently drawn investment from the likes of Google, Facebook and Microsoft Corp.
Deep learning is a branch of artificial intelligence, in which computer scientists attempt to simulate the human brain through computers that can see and learn for themselves. Internet companies so far have primarily used artificial intelligence to improve computer recognition of images and speech, though deep learning could be used in an array of future technologies from driverless cars to robotics.
Baidu, which already has a deep-learning center in Beijing, has used the technology to help refine how it targets ads on its site and develop its speech-recognition software. Last year, it released an application that identifies objects in smartphone photographs.
Mr. Ng, part of a small fraternity of researchers with expertise in deep learning, said the new Baidu lab would give him more resources than he had at Stanford and the ability to assemble larger teams that could focus on specific projects.
"The philosophy of the lab will be to have a small number of projects with strong leaders," said Mr. Ng. Adam Coates, another Stanford artificial-intelligence researcher, is joining him at Baidu.
Baidu doesn't compete directly with Facebook and Google for users -- because both face significant blocks in China -- but the three companies compete for talent. Facebook late last year hired New York University researcher Yann LeCun to lead its own artificial-intelligence efforts. Microsoft has said it is using deep-learning technology to improve image searches for its Bing search engine.
Both U.S. companies have recently made big moves in a field that has a limited number of accomplished researchers. Another well-known person is Geoffrey Hinton, formerly of the University of Toronto, whom Google scooped up when it bought his startup DNNresearch Inc. in early 2013 for an undisclosed amount.
Earlier this year, Google bought DeepMind Technologies for more than $500 million, according to two people with knowledge of the matter. DeepMind was a London-based startup that, among other advances, built a computer that learned to master basic Atari videogames such as "Pong."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
