<title:>Tech
HTC Posts Second Straight Quarterly Profit; Sales Continue to Slide as Smartphone Maker Loses Market Share to Apple and Low-Cost Chinese Competitors
<Date:>2 October 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. said Friday it was profitable for a second consecutive quarter, but the company continued a three-year revenue decline as competition from low-priced Chinese phone makers remains fierce.
The Taiwanese smartphone maker has spent the past year cutting costs and diversifying from its high-end flagship line, after falling into the red last year for the first time since its public listing in 2002.
While the cost cuts have returned HTC to a narrow profit, it has yet to find a way to reverse the slide in sales. HTC has lost share to market leaders like Apple Inc. and to rapidly growing low-cost Chinese rivals like Xiaomi.
The company has rolled out more midtier phones this year, but those new devices have yet to offset the decline in sales of its flagship HTC One line.
HTC executives have said they plan to expand into other product categories this year to try to revive the business. The company sent invitations for a launch event on Oct. 8, with a teaser video that suggests it will release an action camera that can be used while playing sports or swimming.
The company is also joining with Google Inc. to release a Nexus tablet, which will be HTC¡¦s first tablet in three years, according to people familiar with the matter. These new devices could help offset declining sales in HTC¡¦s smartphone business, analysts say.
HTC said its preliminary third-quarter earnings were 640 million New Taiwan dollars (US$21 million), above analyst expectations of NT$556.8 million, according to Thomson One Analytics. That compares with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion in the year-earlier quarter.
In the quarter ended Sept. 30, HTC posted NT$41.86 billion in revenue, down from NT$47 billion in the year-earlier quarter.
In the fourth quarter, HTC will face strong competition from Apple, which announced on Sept. 22 it sold a record 10 million of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones in their first weekend of sales.
