<title:>Jim Oberweis   
<Date:>29 September 2014
<Content:>
With 4 billion users and counting, mobile is changing the world in ways not seen since the dawn of the Internet. From ubiquitous cameras to always-on employment to continual social connection, the world is still in the process of evolving. While obvious beneficiaries such as Samsung, Apple, Google and Facebook are by now very familiar to investors, a plethora of lesser-known small-cap players have carved out profitable niches in the background. Some provide supplies for smartphone makers, while others ?develop apps, games, storage and security software. Still other small-cap gems aren't even technology companies but have businesses that are racking up profits from the global embrace of mobile devices.
Nevertheless, this arena can be fraught with peril. For handsetmaker suppliers, customer concentration is a risk given the dominance of Samsung and Apple, with global smartphone market shares of 25% and 12%, respectively. Those stats are even higher for advanced LTE smartphones. When Apple or Samsung sneezed, investors in their suppliers vomited. The duopoly, however, is ending, as low-cost Chinese handsetmakers such as Lenovo and Xiaomi are taking share. By the end of 2015 we expect a far more diversified pie. Valuations for makers of mobile components are considerably less than you might guess given their high growth rates; I believe the risks will diminish over time.
Here's a diversified way to play the mobile boom: Buy a component supplier, a mobile cloud play and a nontechnology beneficiary.
Based in San Jose, Calif., SYNAPTICS (SYNA, 84) develops interfaces for touchscreens and fingerprint authenticators. Synaptics is riding the smartphone boom, with 77% of sales tied to mobile and ?Samsung as a major customer. Its hot-growth product is fingerprint authenticators. Sales for this segment grew a whopping 122% in the June quarter and accounted for 22% of sales. Synaptics is the market leader for non-Apple devices. According to the company, the fingerprint market (exclusive of Apple) will grow from 30 million units in 2013 to 500 million units by 2016. In June Synaptics announced a $475 million deal to acquire display driver maker and Apple supplier Renesas SP Drivers, which is the leader in display chips for small and medium LCDs. Although there is a Samsung concentration risk in the near term, Synaptics is making inroads with Chinese smartphone developers. Revenues are growing organically at 25% but will grow 60% next year as a result of the acquisition. Shares are cheap at only 15 times forward earnings of $5.50.
Bridgewater, N.J.'s SYNCHRONOSS TECHNOLOGIES (SNCR, 45) activates data-enabled mobile de?vices and offers cloud storage to end users. In the second quarter the fastest-growing part of the business, cloud services, accounted for 44% of revenues (versus 56% for activation services). Unlike Apple's iCloud the company's personal cloud is operating-system agnostic. For service providers such as Verizon, which is a large customer, the cloud offering helps to reduce customer churn. For three consecutive quarters cloud revenues have grown at an annual rate of at least 70%, attributable in part to new mobile devices being preinstalled with Synchronoss software. I expect overall growth of 30%; shares trade for 24 times my forward estimate of $1.85.
ASTRONICS (ATRO, 54) , based in East Aurora, N.Y., is an aerospace and defense provider that is also benefiting--albeit indirectly--from the mobile revolution. It provides in-seat power systems, and hundreds of aircraft are being retrofitted as airlines scramble to cater to customers who want to use and power their mobile devices in flight. While in-seat power is found in lots of wide-body aircraft, penetration into the significantly larger narrow-body market is just beginning, and Astronics is a leader in this area. Shares trade for 20 times my forward estimate of $3.25, for 30% growth.
