<title:>Managing -- Boss Talk Asia: Renren Seeks China's Next Innovation --- Social Media Firm's CEO, Joseph Chen, Discusses the Entrepreneurial Spirit in the Chinese Internet Sector
<Date:>22 September 2014
<Content:>
BEIJING -- Joseph Chen is seeking China's next innovation.
The 44-year-old U.S.-educated entrepreneur is the founder of Renren Inc., a Chinese social-media service. To counter larger rivals such as Weibo Corp. and WeChat mobile-app owner Tencent Holdings Ltd., Mr. Chen is guiding U.S.-traded Renren toward fast-growing parts of China's Internet business, such as mobile games and online video. He has also made well-timed bets on successful startups such as Vipshop Holdings Ltd., a group-buying company that squeezes discounts out of retailers in exchange for groups of customers. Mr. Chen directed Renren to invest in Social Finance Inc., a U.S. company that uses peer-to-peer lending to fund student loans.
Mr. Chen, a history buff and self-declared binge watcher of Western television shows, spoke to The Wall Street Journal recently about the state of China's innovation.
Edited excerpts:
WSJ: How does the state of innovation in China compare with Silicon Valley?
Mr. Chen: The Silicon Valleys of the world need two essentials. One is economic opportunity. The other is a good lifestyle. I think it is really difficult to beat Silicon Valley in both. Silicon Valley -- with Apple, Google based there -- built an ecosystem of smart people who come in, love the place and stayed close, and the money there stayed there.
WSJ: The Chinese Internet is increasingly dominated by three companies -- Tencent, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Baidu Inc. How does that impact innovation?
Mr. Chen: It's very difficult to compete with them in the same space. So that is partially why you have [handset maker] Xiaomi [Inc.]. The CEO, Lei Jun, is a classmate of mine, a capable guy. When he was trying to start a new company, he probably realized that, on the Internet, it is too difficult. So he picked another area.
The dominance of the companies in the application layer will force innovation to happen in other layers. Even if you innovate in that layer you won't make too much money. You need to find another layer to innovate and disrupt. Fortunately the rapid rise of Android and the natural evolution of handsets and smartphones created a huge marketplace.
WSJ: Which companies should we look at in terms of Chinese innovation?
Mr. Chen: Entrepreneurs are increasingly looking to disrupt traditional industries, where the big networks of the major Internet companies have less influence. I'm thinking about O2O -- online to offline -- for a new class of business.
You have to be willing to do something that the big guys aren't willing to go to the trouble to do. Like in the early days of group buying. Nobody knew that group buying would be so big, so the big players, they didn't do it. It is too much work. You have to rent out thousands of sales forces on the ground to knock on the door of the local vendors and hustle.
WSJ: What's the difference between startups in China and startups in the U.S. and elsewhere?
Mr. Chen: Startups in the U.S. definitely have a more relaxed time than Chinese startups. Venture capital in the U.S. seems more conservative in that they don't like to fund copycats. We invested in SoFi, which is successful, but there are only a few serious competitors. If this same market happened in China, you would have 100 players. Discipline in the supply side of capital I think is there [in the U.S.]. They don't fund too many competitors in the same space. As a result of that, the U.S. startup guys don't need to be as paranoid as their Chinese counterparts, who worry about hundreds of competitors.
WSJ: Is there a risk to China's oversupply of capital?
Mr. Chen: The history of risk-taking in this country is short compared with U.S. and Europe. I think the ability to assess risk to a society can be learned only through up and downs in the market. There will be bubbles burst, and I think society has to go through multiple cycles of that to get a good handle on how to calculate risk.
The China capital markets are so new, so you need multiple cycles of boom and bust. Right now you can't say there is an oversupply, because if you calculate venture capital returns from IPOs, it is probably a good return. Based on history things don't look so bad, but the past is never a safe predictor of the future.
WSJ: What kind of Chinese tech company might go global?
Mr. Chen: For the consumer space I tend to think hardware companies have a better chance historically. You look at Toyota and Samsung. Those are hardware companies coming out of Japan and Korea. If China wants to become a technology powerhouse, it should look at Korea and look at Japan.
WSJ: What do you look for in investments?
Mr. Chen: If you want to build a great, large Internet-based business you want to identify a large, slow-moving, inefficient competitor. Who are Vipshop's competitors? They are small, mom-and-pop apparel shops lined up on the commercial streets of the third-tier, fourth-tier, fifth-tier cities. You go into the store and they have nothing to offer other than convenience. They don't have the selection, they don't have the brand. These are the ideal competitors to have. You want to compete with tens of millions of disorganized individual fighters, farmers with broken down guns, rather than with one elite Roman army.
---
Li Yuan in Beijing contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
