<title:>Samsung's Profit Slide Continues
<Date:>9 July 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL -- Samsung Electronics Co.'s warning of a third-straight decline in quarterly profit highlights the pitfalls of the South Korean technology giant's reliance on smartphone sales.
Strong smartphone sales have propelled the company's growth over the last two and a half years, benefitting its other businesses, including components. But Samsung estimated Tuesday that its operating earnings in the latest quarter fell by between 22.3% and 26.5% from a year earlier, hit by a glut of unsold smartphones, which also hurt the performance of the businesses that make microprocessors and displays used in its mobile devices.
In the first quarter of the year, Samsung's mobile unit accounted for about 76% of company profit, compared with just 25% for the same quarter four years earlier when Samsung derived the bulk of its earnings from the sale of semiconductors.
Though Samsung forecast better results in the traditionally strong third quarter, the company, the world's biggest maker of TVs, mobile phones and memory chips, won't likely snap its string of quarterly declines anytime soon, analysts say. That is because smartphone penetration in developed markets is nearing saturation. Meanwhile, in emerging markets, Samsung is facing stiff price competition from Asian handset makers including Xiaomi Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd.
Samsung said in an unusual explanatory note accompanying its profit forecast that in the second quarter, the company had to boost marketing to unload older and lower-end smartphones. In China, where consumers are waiting for the rollout of next-generation 4G LTE networks, Samsung suffered from a pileup of older 3G phones.
In addition, the company said that its sales of tablets were hit by the success of its own smartphone-tablet hybrids, dubbed phablets.
The company's admitted trouble in managing its inventory highlights the flip side of the company's vaunted reach into more than 100 markets: It is difficult to accurately gauge consumer demand in a fast-moving industry like the smartphone business.
Another challenge are fluctuations in the foreign-exchange market, which have pushed the South Korean won to six-year highs. In the past year, the won has gained 13% against the U.S. dollar, a trend that traders expect to continue in the longer term -- bad news to a Korean company that relies on exports for a major part of its revenue.
Even though there are high expectations for Samsung product launches in the second half, including for its flagship large-screen Galaxy Note device, the company's main rival in the high-end market, Apple Inc., is expected to launch bigger screen iPhones, according to people familiar with the matter.
"Samsung's earnings may bottom out in the second quarter, but the expected launch of iPhone 6 models will be a huge challenge for the company's high-end models in the second half," said Lee Seung-woo, an analyst with IBK Securities in Seoul.
Nomura analyst C.W. Chung said that given the increased pressure from rivals, and the difficulty of differentiating its products, Samsung would likely see the operating-profit margin at its mobile unit, which was 19.8% in the first quarter, whittled down over the next few years.
"In terms of the big picture, investors have already decided" that Samsung will struggle to differentiate itself, Mr. Chung said. "The big trend will be a downward trend."
This week, brokerage I'M Investment & Securities Co. cut its recommendation on Samsung to "hold," arguing the company will likely continue losing market share to Chinese brands.
Samsung said its second-quarter operating profit likely fell to between seven trillion won ($6.9 billion) and 7.4 trillion won from 9.53 trillion won a year earlier. Tuesday's disappointing forecast followed a 3.3% decline in operating profit in the first quarter compared with a year ago.
Investors had been bracing for Tuesday's weak numbers. In the past month, they had sent Samsung shares down by about 11%, wiping about $25 billion off its market value, as management gave off worrying signs about earnings. The stock closed Tuesday's session up 0.2% after closing at a three-month low on Monday.
The company estimated its sales fell between 7.8% and 11.2% from a year ago to a range of 51 trillion won to 53 trillion won. Samsung didn't disclose net profit estimates.
Memory chips widely used in PCs and other consumer electronics are likely to show continued improvement when the company releases its full earnings at the end of the month, analysts say. But even so, they noted that has less to do with Samsung's fundamental strengths and more with tight supply conditions that have provided a cyclical lift in prices.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
