<title:>Corporate News: Delayed Teslas Upset Buyers in China --- Furor Reflects Difficulties Auto Makers Face in Selling New-Energy Vehicles in Major Asian Market
<Date:>22 April 2014
<Content:>
BEIJING -- A group of disgruntled Tesla Motors Inc. customers in China is protesting delayed deliveries of their cars one day before the electric-vehicle maker is set to make its first China delivery.
The furor underscores the challenges facing auto makers in marketing new-energy vehicles in China, which so far hasn't delivered on the promise of becoming a major new market for electric cars.
Tesla's launch had been heralded as a possible catalyst that could push China further down the electric-car path. The Palo Alto, Calif., company said in January that it would sell its Model S for $121,000 in China and compete with luxury brands like BMW AG and Volkswagen AG's Audi. Tesla is set on Tuesday to hand over the company's first Model S to a buyer in China at a high-profile event that is scheduled to feature Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk.
Now, some once-enthusiastic customers like Sam Long are unhappy with the reason he says Tesla is offering to explain the delivery delays. "The company told me they are still training electricians in Zhuhai," said Mr. Long, referring to the southern Chinese city where he lives. "I feel my rights have been hurt."
Mr. Long, a 37-year-old businessman, said he ordered his Model S last year, but that as of Monday, the Tesla website showed his car has yet to be manufactured. Mr. Long and 22 other consumers who booked Tesla cars have recently hired attorneys to negotiate with Tesla over the delivery, he said.
Tesla spokesman Simon Sproule said the company wouldn't ship to customers outside the major cities of Beijing and Shanghai until June because of a lack of service centers and charging considerations. "You would never sell any brand unless you have the tools to service it," he said.
Mr. Sproule added that the company is in an "ongoing dialogue" with the customers. (In the U.S., some Tesla buyers have waited for as long as three or four months to get their cars.)
Tesla doesn't report order numbers, only deliveries on a quarterly basis, Mr. Sproule said. In a January interview, Mr. Musk said he would consider it a success if Tesla sold 5,000 vehicles or more in China this year.
China has set itself the ambitious goal of putting 500,000 plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles on the road by next year and five million by 2020. Beijing hopes so-called green cars will help battle chronic pollution and give a much-needed boost to Chinese auto makers by encouraging them to pioneer such vehicles. Such cars could also help reduce the country's dependency on imported oil.
Now China looks increasingly like it will miss its goal. In 2013, about 1,005 plug-in hybrids and 11,410 electric vehicles were sold in the country, according to data from consultancy Automotive Foresight.
Central and local governments offer generous incentives to encourage consumers to buy environmentally friendly cars made by certain Chinese car manufacturers. Some cities exempt car buyers from expensive license-plate fees, which some municipalities impose in an effort to reduce traffic.
But a significant stumbling block is the lack of charging infrastructure in China. There is still a dearth of public places to recharge cars -- the city of Shanghai for example has only a few hundred charging stations, according to Andreas Graef, principal at consultancy A.T. Kearney's office there. Prohibitive investment costs and low financial returns mean state utility providers have little incentive to build the stations, although there are signs this might change as the providers reach out to more private investors, he said.
Issues related to individual charging facilities, whether at home or the office, appear to be a factor explaining Chinese buyers' current displeasure with Tesla.
But Tesla said that, in China, as long as a customer has a designated parking space -- in an apartment building, an individual house or at a workplace -- its service technicians will provide the customer with a secure electrical wiring plan and help install the wall connector.
"We'll also work with property management to find a solution that everyone is happy with. We work with the customer to make sure they have a proper charging option as part of the sales-and-delivery process," Mr. Sproule said.
Tesla is recruiting and training electricians so customers can pay to have them help with charging, he said.
Mr. Graef also said typical new-energy vehicles are less comfortable and spacious compared with more popular cars in China such as sport-utility vehicles.
He added that the Beijing auto show, currently taking place, offers encouraging signs that more appealing new-energy vehicles are in the pipeline from car manufacturers, citing an electric vehicle developed by Daimler AG and Chinese car company BYD Co.
Fans of Tesla in China include some of the country's most prominent executives, such as Lei Jun, founder of Chinese smartphone brand Xiaomi Inc. Last year, Mr. Lei posted a photo online of his meeting with Mr. Musk.
---
Rose Yu and Yang Jie contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
