<title:>Asia
What's News¡X
<Date:>24 September 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
India's Supreme Court canceled hundreds of coal-mining licenses, saying they were granted illegally, adding uncertainty beyond the struggling coal industry to the heart of the nation's economy.
Indian financial investigators made an arrest in connection with an allegedly corruption-tainted deal to buy helicopters from Finmeccanica's AgustaWestland unit.
Chinese investors are pouring millions of dollars into Israel-focused, technology-investment funds, as well as launching their own funds and investing directly in Israeli startups.
General Motors is counting on new Chevrolet and Buick models to reverse market-lagging Chinese passenger car sales.
Toyota lowered the full-year sales outlook at a key Chinese auto joint venture.
Two Chinese steel companies, Sinosteel and Anhui Wanjiang Logistics, said they were having trouble paying back debt.
Taiwan is debating whether to prohibit government officials from using phones made by Xiaomi amid concerns over protection of users' privacy by Chinese tech firms.
BlackBerry unveiled the Passport, a larger square-screen device the company is counting on to revive its fortunes against Apple and Samsung, who now dominate the smartphone market.
Along with new iPhones and a promised smartwatch, Apple is also selling privacy these days.
Australia's central bank is speaking with regulators about possible curbs on mortgage lending to prevent overheating in the market.
Taiwan's inflation is starting to moderate, the central bank said, after data showed the consumer-price index rose to its highest level in 18 months in August.
World-Wide
China and Japan resumed high-level talks on maritime issues, a move that could ease a territorial dispute and help pave the way for the nations' leaders to meet for the first time in years.
A self-proclaimed ally of the Islamic State group released a video purportedly showing the beheading of a Frenchman abducted in Algeria.
Anas Urbaningrum, a former leader of Indonesian President Yudhoyono's political party, was convicted of graft.
Two top public-health agencies warned that the number of cases of Ebola in West Africa could grow exponentially unless measures to tame the outbreak are implemented on a large scale soon. 
