<title:>By Evelyn M. Rusli, Douglas MacMillan and Mike Spector 
<Date:>21 March 2014
<Content:>
Airbnb Inc., which once sold novelty cereal boxes to stay afloat before emerging as a threat to the hotel industry, is close to becoming one of the world's most valuable startups.
The online service that lets people rent their homes to travelers is in advanced talks to raise capital that would value it at about $10 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
Private-equity firm TPG and boutique investment firm Dragoneer Investment Group are leading the funding round, which could total between $400 million and $500 million, these people said. Mutual funds including T. Rowe Price Group Inc. are expected to be part of the investment group, the people said. Fidelity Investments is also in discussions to join the group, the people said.
The negotiations between the various investment groups and Airbnb remain fluid and could fall apart, these people cautioned.
The rich price tag reflects Airbnb's potential to disrupt the hotel industry. In six years, the company has become a required destination for millions of tourists looking for cheap rooms, while giving homeowners a new source of income. It is part of a trend of technology startups -- including car-sharing service Uber Technologies Inc. -- creating markets by letting people share excess resources.
The company could be worth more than Wyndham Worldwide Corp., which manages 7,500 hotels under the Wyndham, Ramada and other brands, and is valued at $9.3 billion. Hyatt Hotels Corp., has a market value of $8.4 billion.
Airbnb's growth has drawn scrutiny from regulators wary about safety, oversight and tax collections. The company has also attracted the ire of hotel operators, who argue that the rentals unfairly skirt lodging taxes and aren't held to the same fire codes and other regulations.
Last October, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman subpoenaed Airbnb for information on its 15,000 hosts in the state, to determine if any are violating a 2010 state law that prohibits renters from subletting their homes for more than 30 days if they're not present. The company is contesting the order in court.
Airbnb doesn't own any property rented on its service, employ bellhops or serve any continental breakfasts. Instead, the service has created an alternative to hotels by turning individuals into hoteliers, allowing hosts to rent their couches, rooms, apartments and homes through an online marketplace. Hosts set a nightly rate, and Airbnb collects guests' payments, keeping a small portion of the fees for itself.
The quality of accommodations isn't as standardized as the hotels listed on sites like Priceline.com, but within Airbnb's marketplace, there is the opportunity to find a quirky property -- a treehouse in Hawaii, a houseboat with a view of the Eiffel Tower, or simply a cheaper bed.
Founded in 2008, Airbnb is a classic rags-to-riches Silicon Valley startup story. As new transplants to San Francisco struggling to pay rent, Airbnb co-founders Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia rented out air mattresses in their apartment during a bustling conference in a bid to make extra money. The informal arrangement became a website called Airbedandbreakfast.com. But it wasn't a rocket ship at first. CEO Mr. Chesky -- a designer -- didn't fit the mold of the typical engineer and many venture capitalists were wary of the unorthodox business model.
To get by, the company designed and sold cereal boxes of then presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain, from which it made tens of thousands of dollars. The move impressed Paul Graham, the founder of Y Combinator, a Silicon Valley incubator, who accepted them into his program in 2009.
The company has since expanded its rental service to more than 600,000 listings in more than 190 countries, doubling revenue last year to about $250 million, according to people familiar with the matter. Airbnb last raised funding at a valuation of $2.5 billion in 2012, from venture-capital investors including Peter Thiel's Founders Fund, Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia Capital.
Beyond room rentals, Airbnb expects to add an array of hospitality services. Earlier this year, Airbnb began testing a cleaning service for hosts in certain neighborhoods in San Francisco and New York.
Top executives at the large hotel brands, for the most part, have played down any rivalry between the industry and Airbnb. When they have complained, those gripes have centered on fairness and guest safety.
But smaller hotel operators are starting to speak out. "These guys are scofflaws," said Vijay Dandapani, president of New York hotel chain Apple Core Hotels. "There's no reason why they should be subjected to a completely different set of rules than the legacy hotel businesses."
As a huge marketplace with little control over its users, Airbnb has also had to grapple with hosts or guests behaving badly. After a smattering of thefts and vandalism, Airbnb put in place a $1 million insurance policy for hosts. Still, headlines of guests running amok continue to plague the startup. Earlier this month, a host said one guest turned his Manhattan apartment into the site of a sex party, which led to tens of thousands of dollars in property damage. Airbnb reimbursed the owner for his losses.
Even with these challenges, Airbnb could command one of the richest valuations for a company backed by venture capital.
In the past 12 months, at least 22 companies have raised new funds that valued them at $1 billion or more. At the top of that list, online-storage provider Dropbox Inc. and Chinese mobile-phone maker Xiaomi Inc. notched $10 billion valuations last year. Uber, which is unsettling the taxi industry by turning qualified car owners into chauffeurs, was valued last year at $3.8 billion following an investment from a group including TPG.
---
Craig Karmin contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
