<title:>Corporate News: Corporate Watch
<Date:>6 August 2014
<Content:>
DARDEN RESTAURANTS
Investor Signals Wish
For Further Shake-Up
Barington Companies Equity Partners LP said it is withdrawing its proposal that the board of Darden Restaurants Inc. select an independent director as chairman, after the company did so last week, but signaled support for a further shake-up.
Darden said last week that its chairman and chief executive, Clarence Otis, would step down.
The Orlando, Fla.-based owner of the Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse chains has been under fire since late last year from activist investors, who have argued it would be better off broken into three pieces. Rather than divide itself, Darden earlier this year sold its Red Lobster chain, infuriating shareholder activists including Starboard Value LP, which said it would seek to replace the board.
The company said Charles A. Ledsinger Jr., the board's current lead-independent director, would assume the role of chairman, effective immediately.
On Tuesday, Barington said it appreciates Darden's selection of an independent director, but that the move will have "little impact" if most of Darden's directors are re-elected. The firm signaled its support for Starboard's proposal for an overhaul of a majority of the board.
-- Erin McCarthy
---
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS
Dominance In Cellphones
Starts to Show Cracks
Signs are emerging that Samsung Electronics Co. is losing its dominance in two of Asia's fastest-growing cellphone markets: China and India. That is because smartphone consumers across the region are flocking to Samsung's local rivals.
Counterpoint Technology Market Research, a data tracker based in Hong Kong, said Tuesday that Samsung's No. 1 position in India mobile-phone sales was surpassed in the second quarter by Micromax Informatics Ltd.
Canalys, another market-research firm, released similar figures Tuesday, showing Micromax accounted for 17.5% of mobile-phone sales in India during the second quarter, ahead of Samsung's 15.1%.
Earlier this week, Canalys said Beijing-based Xiaomi Inc., which has been selling smartphones for only three years, leapfrogged past Samsung. Xiaomi captured a 14% market share in China for the second quarter. Samsung and Lenovo Group Ltd. each had a 12% stake. It is quite a switch from the first quarter, when Xiaomi's 10.7% market share trailed Samsung's 18.3%.
Taken together, the data point to a worrisome trend for Samsung, which last week reported a 20% decline in second-quarter net profit, its first year-over-year profit pullback in almost three years. Samsung declined to comment on the latest data.
-- Jonathan Cheng
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
