<title:>By Lorraine Luk and Juro Osawa   
<Date:>11 June 2014
<Content:>
Corrections & Amplifications
Cao Teng, an executive at ZTE Corp., left Motorola Mobility last year and joined ZTE this year. A Technology article about ZTE in Wednesday's Marketplace section incorrectly said the company recruited him directly from Motorola Mobility.
(WSJ June 13, 2014)
(END)
SHANGHAI -- ZTE Corp. is poaching talent from struggling Western smartphone makers such as BlackBerry Ltd. and Motorola Mobility, as the Chinese company tries to expand its handset business overseas, its mobile-devices CEO said.
Amid uncertainties surrounding the prospects for BlackBerry and Motorola Mobility -- the cellphone maker that Google Inc. is in the process of selling to China's Lenovo Group Ltd. -- over the past year, ZTE has found opportunities to cherry-pick talent from those established global competitors.
Inside ZTE's human-resources department, a special team is tasked with recruiting talent from BlackBerry. While the team has so far recruited fewer than 20 people, it plans to hire more, a person familiar with the situation said. Most of the new hires from BlackBerry, which include senior engineers, are currently based in Canada, but they may later move to the U.S. or China to play greater roles for ZTE, the person added.
"We hope the talent from BlackBerry can enhance our product security and design capability," said Adam Zeng, who became the head of ZTE's mobile-device business in January, in an interview Monday. Mr. Zeng said the company will continue to actively recruit more talent from BlackBerry and other competitors.
Apart from the new hires from BlackBerry, ZTE recently recruited Cao Teng, an executive in charge of handset marketing, from Motorola Mobility.
ZTE's hiring spree comes as major Chinese smartphone makers are trying to expand globally, while some Western competitors are moving away from handset businesses. In January, Chinese personal-computer maker Lenovo agreed to buy Motorola Mobility from Google for $2.91 billion. Before announcing the Motorola deal, Lenovo had also considered buying BlackBerry, people familiar with the situation told The Wall Street Journal last year.
BlackBerry laid off as much as 40% of its workforce last year as part of its efforts to turn around its unprofitable business. Representatives for BlackBerry and Motorola Mobility couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
"To expand in North America, we need more people with international background," a ZTE spokesman said.
ZTE's biggest business is supplying networking gear such as routers and switches to telecommunications carriers world-wide. Last year, the telecom-gear business accounted for a little over half of ZTE's overall revenue, which stood at roughly $12 billion. Its handset business, meanwhile, accounted for nearly 30% of its revenue, while software and services took up the remainder.
As potential growth in the telecom gear-market is limited, ZTE has been trying to create a new source of growth by expanding its consumer-device business.
Still, ZTE's smartphone market share in China has recently declined amid intensifying competition from both domestic and foreign brands. In the first quarter, ZTE was the eighth-largest smartphone vendor in China by shipment, as its market share fell to 5% from 8% a year earlier, according to research firm Canalys.
Samsung Electronics Co. was the market leader in the quarter with an 18% share, followed by Lenovo and Beijing-based startup Xiaomi Inc., which each held 11%. Analysts attributed the drop in ZTE's market share to weak brand recognition and unattractive product design.
Mr. Zeng said ZTE plans to double its marketing expenses this year to sell more smartphones. The company now aims to ship 80 million smartphones next year, up from the 40 million units last year, he said. This year, it expects to ship 60 million smartphones.
"In the past, we mainly relied on carriers to sell our phones. But it has to change as only direct communications with customers can help provide the best user experience," Mr. Zeng said.
ZTE has established user-experience study centers in China and the U.S., the top two smartphone markets, to survey the demand and preference of customers world-wide, said Mr. Zeng.
In China, social media and online shopping are playing key roles in smartphone brands' efforts to sell more handsets. Xiaomi, for example, has built a strong fan base by communicating with online shoppers through social networks and Internet forums. Learning from Xiaomi's success, ZTE is expanding its online sales channels and responding to users' comments and suggestions on Internet forums, Mr. Zeng said.
ZTE also plans to launch a smartphone this year that will allow users to watch videos of U.S. National Basketball Association games, Mr. Zeng said. ZTE signed an agreement in late 2013 to be the NBA's exclusive handset partner in China.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
