<title:>Corporate News: Taiwan Considers Limits On Use of Xiaomi Phones
<Date:>25 September 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI -- Taiwan is debating whether to prohibit government officials from using phones produced by Xiaomi Inc., China's biggest smartphone maker, amid burgeoning concern over the protection of users' privacy by Chinese tech firms.
"Recent reports and speculations over the security of Xiaomi phones has prompted us to look into the matter," government spokesman Sun Lih-chyun said Wednesday. The government will make a decision in three months.
Xiaomi declined to comment directly on Taiwan's possible ban but reiterated its earlier statement that the new upgraded software system is sufficient to block any transferring or collection of personal information without prior authorization from users.
The possible ban is also a reflection of Taiwan's wariness of China, despite the strengthening of bilateral trade links. According to Taiwan's National Security Bureau, the island encountered more than 30,000 hacking attempts during the first half of this year, with a portion suspected to be from Internet protocol addresses in China.
To beef up Taiwan's cyberdefense, Mr. Sun said non-Taiwanese instant-messaging applications, including LINE, WhatsApp, Facebook and WeChat, aren't allowed to be installed on government issued electronic devices. Government workers are also asked not to discuss work-related matters over those platforms, he added. Instead, government staff have been asked to communicate via Juiker, a homegrown instant-messaging application created by the government-funded Industrial Technology Research Institute.
Mr. Sun said because servers of these foreign chat platforms are located in other countries, "in cases of cybersecurity breach or data theft, it will be difficult for our police to investigate."
Tencent Holdings Ltd., the Chinese maker of WeChat, couldn't be reached for comment.
Competitive pricing by Chinese telecom and mobile-phone companies has bolstered their global market access, but they are also facing harsher scrutiny from foreign governments amid escalating concerns over cyberattacks and digital espionage allegedly stemming from China.
In 2012, the U.S. government flagged Chinese telecommunication giants Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE as potential national security threats, saying in a report that equipment produced by these two firms could be use to compromise American cybersecurity. Vehement accusations of trespassing each other's cyberspace remain a strain on Sino-U.S. ties. In August, Singapore said it would launch a probe into Xiaomi on possible data theft after complaints about the Chinese company's alleged unauthorized transmission of users' personal information to a server in Beijing.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
