<title:>Corporate News: Corporate Watch
<Date:>5 November 2014
<Content:>
WAL-MART STORES
Price to Retake Asia Helm
As President and CEO
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is bringing back Scott Price to oversee its Asia division less than six months after the company relocated the executive from Hong Kong to take an international strategy position at the company's Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.
Mr. Price will add his old job of president and chief executive for Asia to his new, Arkansas-based role leading real estate, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate strategy for Wal-Mart's international operations, which include approximately 6,100 stores in 26 countries outside of the U.S.
He returns to the Asia job as Wal-Mart's operations in China, Japan and India are grappling with choppy sales results, compliance issues and government regulation.
The post was left vacant after Mr. Price's successor and former China head, Greg Foran, left the region to take over Wal-Mart's U.S. operations in August.
-- Shelly Banjo
XIAOMI
Smartphone Maker to Invest
$1 Billion for TV Content
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. will invest $1 billion to acquire television content, the company said Tuesday, as it joins Chinese software giants in a race to control video programming in the country.
The company also said it hired Chen Tong, former chief editor of Web portal Sina, as vice president in charge of content investments.
"Xiaomi TV's content must become even more rich and colorful, and become the weather vane leading the industry," the company wrote on its television division's official Weibo microblog.
The move comes shortly after Jack Ma, founder of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., met with Hollywood executives to discuss possibilities of co-financing coming movies. Chinese Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been scrambling for exclusive content as they vie for the eyeballs of China's more than 600 million Internet users.
-- Eva Dou
MICHAEL KORS HOLDINGS
Apparel Maker Lowers View
As It Posts Jump in Profit
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. isn't as immune as it used to be to the cautious American consumer.
The maker of handbags, shoes and apparel blamed a slowdown in its North American business on a reduction in mall traffic and said it expected consumers to be more conservative during the holiday season.
The outlook came as the company posted strong quarter, buoyed by international growth. Profit for the three months ended Sept. 27 rose 42% to $207 million from $145.8 million a year earlier. Total revenue -- which includes licensing revenue -- jumped 43% to $1.06 billion. North American revenue increased 30% to $802 million, while sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increased 11%.
-- Suzanne Kapner
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
