<title:>WSJ.D Technology: China Phone Companies Make Push in India
<Date:>11 August 2014
<Content:>
NEW DELHI -- Indian cellphone makers that made their names undercutting the prices of big global brands such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. are now being challenged at their own game as Chinese brands land in India.
Micromax Informatics Ltd. and Karbonn Mobiles came from relative obscurity in India to dominate the world's second-biggest telecommunications market, after China, by the number of handsets sold. But they are stuck in a pricing and features war for Indian buyers of low-cost phones, as Chinese cellphone startups such as Xiaomi Inc., Oppo Mobile Telecommunications Corp. and Gionee Communication Equipment Co. set their sights on Indian consumers who value a product's cost rather than its brand name.
"To counter the competition of Chinese brands, both local handset vendors and foreign brands need to [offer] the existing set of device features at even lower price points," said Tarun Pathak, a telecom analyst at Cyber Media Research.
Cyber Media, based in New Delhi, estimates that Chinese brands have less than a 5% market share right now, but the surge in the market share of previously unknown Indian brands shows how quickly market dominance can change when the South Asian consumer is offered a product at the right price.
In 2008, the top Indian brands had a market share of a little more than 1%, according to data from research firm IDC. That share has now surged to more than 40%.
Micromax -- which didn't exist six years ago -- dethroned Samsung as the best-selling cellphone brand in India in the second quarter, according to Counterpoint Technology Market Research, a research-and-consulting company based in Hong Kong. With backing from venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital, Micromax has captured the Indian market by offering phones at 30% lower prices than the big global brands and building its name through a nationwide advertising campaign.
Gionee -- one of China's larger cellphone makers -- wants to pull off the same kind of surge in market share in India. It currently has about a 3% market share, up from 1% last year. "We have been able to take away market share from both multinational companies as well as domestic brands" by offering a range of phones at competitive prices, said Arvind Vohra, India head for Gionee smartphones.
Cellphone companies are pursuing Indian consumers such as engineering student Shehzaad, who lives in Meerut, a town near Delhi. He says he has always avoided the big global brands to save a few rupees and recently gave up his Micromax phone for a Gionee phone.
"It has more features than Micromax, qualitywise it is better and is much cheaper," said the 20-year-old, who goes by only one name.
The weak spot for the Chinese newcomers is their distribution network in India, where most of the more than 1.2 billion population lives outside of the big cities. One of India's leading low-cost brands, Karbonn Mobiles, for example, already reaches more than 85,000 retail outlets.
The Indian companies know that the shortcut to capturing market share in India is to sell their products at a few dollars less than the competition. Still, if necessary, it might be difficult for the Indian brands to undercut the Chinese manufacturers on price.
"Indian handset vendors definitely need to keep a check on the price," said Karan Thakkar, a telecom analyst at IDC.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
