<title:>World
The 10-Point.; A personal, guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal, from Editor in Chief Gerard Baker.
<Date:>28 October 2014
<Content:>
Greetings from Laguna Beach,
Here¡¦s an update on our WSJD Live technology conference:
Today Andrew Conrad, head of the Life Sciences team at the Google X research lab, revealed that Google is designing tiny magnetic particles to patrol the human body for signs of cancer and other diseases¡Xthe latest example of the company¡¦s sweeping ambition. The project, however, still appears to be more than five years from fruition. We also heard from Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, Hugo Barra, who defended the Chinese smartphone maker¡¦s business model which focuses on markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Axelle Lemaire, France¡¦s deputy minister for digital affairs, talked about the regulation of personal data, noting that European governments are discussing how to update rules for global tech titans. ¡§If they really want to be international players, they have to adapt a little bit more,¡¨ she said. FireEye¡¦s Kevin Mandia discussed tactics used in security breaches. Coursera CEO Richard Levin and Gene Block, the chancellor of the University of California in Los Angeles, explored the impact of massive open online courses, or MOOCs. And venture investor Marc Andreessen offered his thoughts on startup valuations and what needs to be done to make the technology industry more inclusive of women.
In case you missed it, yesterday Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma shared his interest in partnering with Apple in financial payments, and Apple CEO Tim Cook said he was going to meet with Mr. Ma this week to discuss the prospect. Today we look at the potential benefits and pitfalls of such an alliance, noting a host of technical and possible regulatory hurdles. During the conference, Mr. Cook also gave us an update on the recent launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps. In a review of Apple Pay, our personal technology columnist Geoffrey Fowler writes that the service beats PayPal and Google, but needs more reach before we can eradicate wallet bloat. And don¡¦t miss tomorrow¡¦s coverage of WSJD Live, which you can follow here. I will be interviewing News Corp Chairman Rupert Murdoch and Telefonos de Mexico chief Carlos Slim on the bets they¡¦ve won and lost. We will also hear the perspectives of other entrepreneurs, executives and innovators, including Sue Desmond-Hellmann, James Cameron and Steve Ballmer.
¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 
