<title:>Asia
What's News¡X
<Date:>10 August 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
A summer of geopolitical unrest is rattling markets, but so far, investors' optimistic view of U.S. stocks has escaped unscathed.
Indian cellphone makers face competition in the country's market for low-cost phones, as Chinese startups including Xiaomi land in India.
McDonald's posted its worst monthly calendar-adjusted global same-store sales since early 2003 as it deals with a meat-supplier scandal in China and continued weakness in the U.S.
Malaysia's state investment firm, which controls nearly 70% of Malaysia Airline, disclosed a $430 million plan to take the airline private, a first step in an restructuring effort that aims to return the carrier to financial strength.
Amazon said its $2 billion bet on India's tiny e-commerce market is about being ready when the market takes off.
With its network revamp almost complete, Sprint is ready to pare costs and engage in fierce price competition, says Masayoshi Son, CEO of its parent, SoftBank.
Japanese auto makers have been clawing back market share in China. But recent data suggest that growth is going to lose traction because cars like the Honda Accord are no longer seen as cool by young Chinese consumers.
In its first eight days, General Motors's compensation program has received about 120 claims, more than half of which involved deaths allegedly linked to GM cars that were recalled earlier this year.
China's new restrictions on messaging services could open advertising opportunities for Tencent and its popular WeChat messaging application.
One of this year's biggest winners in currency markets, the New Zealand dollar, has turned into one of its biggest losers. Despite this, Fund managers are sticking with their bullish bets.
A plan to give foreign investors more access to China's stock markets is hitting hurdles, with brokers concerned that they won't be fully ready for its start.
World-Wide
China's inflation in July stayed well within the government's comfort zone, according to data released Saturday, suggesting tepid consumerdemand remains tepid despite loose monetary policy and government stimulus measures.
The day after the World Health Organization declared the African Ebola epidemic an international public-health emergency, Zambia on Saturday closed its borders to all people coming from the West African nations where the Ebola virus has broken out, after the WHO declared the virus an international public-health emergency.
A weakened typhoon slammed into Japan early Sunday, leaving one person dead, more than 30 injured and prompting evacuation alertsfor some 1.1 million residents near swollen rivers.
A tour bus on a highway in Tibet fell off a 30-foot cliff after crashing into an SUVa sport-utility vehicle and a pickup, killing 44 people and injuring 11 others, China's state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Sunday.
