<title:>Business
Corporate Watch: News Digest
<Date:>4 November 2014
<Content:>
Wal-Mart Stores
Price to Retake Asia Helm
As President and CEO
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is bringing back Scott Price to oversee its Asia division less than six months after the company relocated the executive from Hong Kong to take an international strategy position at the company¡¦s Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.
Mr. Price will add his old job of president and chief executive for Asia to his new, Arkansas-based role leading real estate, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate strategy for Wal-Mart¡¦s international operations, which include approximately 6,100 stores in 26 countries outside of the U.S.
He returns to the Asia job as Wal-Mart¡¦s operations in China, Japan and India are grappling with choppy sales results, compliance issues and government regulation.
The post was left vacant after Mr. Price¡¦s successor and former China head, Greg Foran, left the region to take over Wal-Mart¡¦s U.S. operations in August. Since then, the company has decided to modify the way its regional executive roles are set up to allow more autonomy for the business leaders in individual markets, Wal-Mart spokesman Ray Bracy said.
¡§Scott will travel to Asia with some regularity, but the role is different now,¡¨ Mr. Bracy said. ¡§It will be less of a day-to-day role.¡¨
Shelly Banjo
Xiaomi
Smartphone Maker to Invest
$1 Billion for TV Content
Taipei¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. will invest $1 billion to acquire television content, the company said Tuesday, as it joins Chinese software giants in a race to control video programming in the country.
The company also said it hired Chen Tong, former chief editor of Web portal Sina, as vice president in charge of content investments.
¡§Xiaomi TV¡¦s content must become even more rich and colorful, and become the weather vane leading the industry,¡¨ the company wrote on its television division¡¦s official Weibo microblog.
The move comes shortly after Jack Ma, founder of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., met with Hollywood executives to discuss possibilities of co-financing coming movies. Chinese Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been scrambling for exclusive content as they vie for the eyeballs of China¡¦s more than 600 million Internet users. These viewers increasingly watch videos on smartphones.
Xiaomi is the world¡¦s fourth-largest smartphone maker and began making smart TVs last year.
China became the world¡¦s second-biggest movie market in 2012, behind the U.S.
Eva Dou
Apparel Maker Lowers View
As It Posts Jump in Profit
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. isn¡¦t as immune as it used to be to the cautious American consumer.
The high-flyingmaker of trendy handbags, shoes and apparel blamed a slowdown in its North American business on a reduction in mall traffic and said it expected consumers to be more conservative with their spending during the coming holiday season.
The news showed that this fall¡¦s slowdown in the apparel business proved punishing not only for turnaround cases like J.C. Penney Co., but also some of retail¡¦s better performers. Kors lowered its forecast for sales excluding newly opened or closed stores for the year.
Shares in Kors were down nearly 8% at $71.96 in Tuesday morning trading.
The tempered outlook came as the company posted an otherwise strong quarter, buoyed by international growth. Profit for the three months ended Sept. 27 rose 42% to $207 million from $145.8 million a year earlier. Total revenue¡Xwhich includes licensing revenue¡Xjumped 43% to $1.06 billion. North American revenue increased 30% to $802 million, while sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increased 11%. European revenue more than doubled to $238 million, with sales excluding newly opened or closed locations increasing 41%.
Michael Kors had defied the expectations of some analysts and investors who argued that the company couldn¡¦t sustain its momentum as its products were distributed to an ever wider clientele. The company had argued that while it expected to sales to slow eventually, its brand of luxury populism would ensure a large audience for Kors as an accessible luxury brand.
John Idol, chief executive, said the decline in mall traffic was more significant during the quarter than expected and that sales growth excluding newly opened or closed stores and the rate at which Kors turned browsers into buyers ¡§wasn¡¦t as high as we anticipated.¡¨
Kors isn¡¦t ramping up promotions beyond what was planned, despite an environment that is very price sensitive. ¡§It¡¦s the right thing to do for a luxury brand,¡¨ Mr. Idol said.
The forecast for the current quarter was weaker than what Wall Street was expecting. For the year, the company now expects same-store sales to rise by a percentage in the mid teens, versus its previous call for a high teens increase. Kors raised its overall revenue guidance slightly, to a range of $4.3 billion to $4.4 billion.
Kors¡¦s board also authorized the company to buy back $1 billion in stock.
Suzanne Kapner
