<title:>Corporate News: TPG-Led Investment Puts Airbnb's Value at $10 Billion
<Date:>21 April 2014
<Content:>
A group led by private-equity firm TPG has finalized an agreement to invest more than $450 million in Airbnb Inc., valuing the home-rental site at $10 billion, according to people familiar with the situation.
The funding round makes Airbnb one of the world's most valuable startups, matching investors' price tags for file-storage company Dropbox Inc. and Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Airbnb, which lets people rent their homes to travelers, is also now valued higher than large publicly traded hotel chains Wyndham Worldwide Corp. and Hyatt Hotels Corp.
The investor group also includes investment firm Dragoneer Investment Group, mutual fund T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital. TPG Growth, the buyout firm's middle-market and growth-equity arm, and Dragoneer are expected to invest roughly $75 million apiece in Airbnb as part of the deal, the people said. Sequoia, an earlier Airbnb investor, is expected to invest about $85 million, they said.
The deal includes some so-called downside protections for the investor group should Airbnb's value decrease in a future deal, the people said. The details of those terms weren't immediately learned.
Investors are betting on Airbnb's potential to disrupt the multibillion-dollar hospitality industry. Its service gives budget travelers an alternative to hotels by letting them rent people's couches, rooms, apartments and houses. Homeowners gain a new source of income, and Airbnb collects a small portion of the nightly rate.
The six-year-old company, which previously raised more than $300 million in capital, is padding its coffers as it prepares to expand globally and add more services for travelers. Earlier this year, Airbnb began testing a cleaning service for hosts in certain neighborhoods of San Francisco and New York.
Airbnb also needs financial ammunition to battle a powerful hotel industry and scrutiny from regulators, and to cover costly damages from thefts and vandalism. Hotels argue that the company's rentals unfairly skirt lodging taxes and should be held to the same fire codes and other regulations. Regulators, meanwhile, are concerned about safety, oversight and tax collections.
Last October, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman subpoenaed Airbnb for information on its 15,000 hosts in the state, to determine if any are violating a 2010 state law that prohibits renters from subletting their homes for more than 30 days if they aren't present. The company is contesting the order in state Supreme Court, which has scheduled a hearing to begin April 22.
Airbnb, which operates in about 32,000 cities, has said in recent weeks that it is aiming to start collecting taxes from renters on behalf of hosts in New York, San Francisco and Portland, Ore.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
