<title:>Corporate News: Xiaomi Hits Delays In Indonesia, Brazil
<Date:>21 July 2014
<Content:>
NEW DELHI -- Xiaomi Inc., the Chinese company that aims to take on Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in the global smartphone market, has hit a snag in its expansion plans to launch its flagship smartphone in Indonesia and Brazil.
Hugo Barra, Xiaomi's vice president for global operations, said in an interview in New Delhi that the delay is due to a "long and painful device-certification process."
Handset makers need to get their products certified by government agencies across the world before they can launch and sell in different markets. In Indonesia, Brazil and Mexico, the process can take as long as six months to meet local standards and get products certified for sale, he said.
Mr. Barra, however, said Xiaomi is hopeful about introducing its smartphone in Indonesia by the end of August. Xiaomi's plans to offer its smartphones in Brazil could take longer, he said, citing local laws that require companies like Xiaomi to assemble their products in the South American country.
"It may take a long time, probably within the next 12 months, but hard to say," Mr. Barra said.
Xiaomi -- which means "little rice" in Chinese -- has intensified competition in a smartphone market dominated by Apple and Samsung. Xiaomi has created buzz in China for selling high-end phones for prices that are close to cost. The company offers services like mobile applications and movies via its software and earns money by selling an array of accessories. As of the end of last year, it held a 6% market share in China, compared with nothing three years ago, making it No. 6 there, according to research firm IDC. Apple's iPhones held a 7% share. It sells its phones mostly in small batches online but hopes to grow, with plans to sell 60 million smartphones this year, said President Lin Bin.
In February, Mr. Lin said the company planned to sell about 40 million phones this year.
Xiaomi has in recent months made its products available in Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines. On Tuesday, it launched its latest phone in India and Mr. Barra said the company is also setting its sights on Brazil despite hurdles.
"Without a doubt, India and probably Brazil will become our biggest markets to focus on after China," Mr. Barra said.
As part of its expansion in India, Xiaomi is also working on licensing content. "India will be the first market where we put in a significant effort to launch our services with a local flavor," after China, he said.
The company is also working on a project to make its Mi user-interface software accessible to local Indian languages, according to Manu Jain, Xiaomi's India head.
Mr. Barra said his company aims to hire at least five engineers in India and work with startups to create features, applications and services that can be offered on its handsets.
For the current year, Xiaomi is targeting revenue of at least 70 billion yuan ($11.28 billion).
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
