<title:>Corporate News: Samsung's Phones Lose Ground in Asia
<Date:>6 August 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL -- Signs are emerging that Samsung Electronics Co. is losing its dominance in two of Asia's fastest-growing cellphone markets: China and India.
That is because smartphone consumers across the region are flocking to Samsung's local rivals.
Counterpoint Technology Market Research, a data tracker based in Hong Kong, said Tuesday that Samsung's No. 1 position in India mobile-phone sales was surpassed in the second quarter by Micromax Informatics Ltd., a local rival founded just five years ago.
Canalys, another market-research firm, released similar figures Tuesday, showing Micromax accounted for 17.5% of mobile-phone sales in India during the second quarter, ahead of Samsung's 15.1%. In smartphones alone, Samsung still retained the lead after stripping out low-end feature phones.
Earlier this week, Canalys said Beijing-based Xiaomi Inc., which has been selling smartphones for only three years, leapfrogged past Samsung to the top position in China, the world's largest cellphone market. Xiaomi captured a 14% market share in China for the second quarter. Samsung and Lenovo Group Ltd. each had a 12% stake. It is quite a switch from the first quarter, when Xiaomi's 10.7% market share trailed Samsung's 18.3%.
Taken together, the data points to a worrisome trend for Samsung, which last week reported a 20% decline in second-quarter net profit, its first year-over-year profit pullback in almost three years. Samsung declined to comment on the latest data.
While it is still the top smartphone maker in Southeast Asia thanks to its aggressive marketing and branding efforts, Samsung has lost market share in Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam, which have a combined population of about 360 million people, over the past year, according to Counterpoint.
In the Philippines and Thailand, Samsung clings to a slight edge over a bevy of local rivals and global competitors such as Apple Inc., whose share has grown in the past year, Counterpoint said.
"In general in India and China, Samsung is under a lot of pressure in the low end," said Jessica Kwee, a Singapore-based analyst for Canalys, citing increased pressure from local vendors who are trying to compete by delivering more bang for the buck.
More competition from these rivals is likely to continue pinching Samsung's profitability, analysts say. Operating-profit margins for Samsung's mobile division fell to 15.5% in the second quarter from 17.7% a year earlier, the company said. That is the slimmest margin recorded by the division since late 2011.
While increased competition is partly to blame, Samsung also has hurt itself. In China in particular, company executives have blamed poor inventory management that left a glut of third-generation smartphones on its shelves -- just as Chinese consumers brace for the arrival of faster smartphones on fourth-generation networks.
Counterpoint's monthly data shows Samsung's China market share peaked in February and then steadily declined to about 17% in June. Lenovo and Huawei Technologies Co. weren't far behind, according to Tom Kang, a director at the research firm, with about 14% each.
---
Juro Osawa, Eva Dou and R. Jai Krishna contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
