<title:>By Assif Shameen   
<Date:>4 August 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL, South Korea -- Samsung Electronics on Thursday reported its worst quarterly profit in two years and flagged uncertain earnings prospects for its handset business, propelling worries about its ability to return to growth.
The guidance, as well as Samsung's decision to keep its interim dividend unchanged from last year, sent shares of the company, South Korea's biggest by market value, down 3.7 percent.
For the quarter ended in June, Samsung said operating profit fell 24.6 percent from the same period last year, to 7.2 trillion won, or $7 billion, matching its guidance. It was the third straight quarter of profit decline and Samsung's weakest results since the second quarter of 2012.
Net profit was 6.25 trillion won, compared with 7.77 trillion won in the second quarter last year. Profit for the mobile division fell to 4.42 trillion won, from 6.28 trillion won a year ago, also the lowest in two years.
Samsung was downbeat about its third-quarter prospects, and said that for its mobile division, it expected a decline in average sale price from the April-to-June period.
''Considering intensifying competition of price and specifications, as well as the release of new competing models, it is difficult to expect earnings to improve from the second quarter,'' Kim Hyun-joon, a senior vice president of Samsung, said about the mobile business during a conference call with analysts.
Kim Hyun-su, fund manager at IBK Asset Management, said: ''There needed to be a positive guidance for third-quarter results, but it looks like the company is saying the outlook isn't too bright aside from its semiconductor business.''
Samsung reported a profit of 1.86 trillion won for its chip division, and said it expected shipment growth for both DRAM and NAND memory chips to outpace the broader market this year. Samsung said it planned 24 trillion won in capital expenditure this year, about the same as last year, with 14.4 trillion won of that for the chip business.
The research firm IDC noted that Samsung's second-quarter global smartphone market share slipped to 25.2 percent from 32.3 percent a year ago, underscoring its troubles.
''Nothing on the smartphone end has particularly changed, and there likely won't be any change in the story aside from effects of cost reduction,'' said Lee Min-hee, an analyst at IM Investment.
Executives of Samsung's mobile division returned a quarter of their bonuses for the first half of the year and have downgraded to economy seats for shorter flights. But analysts say the pressure on the business to turn around will persist and could lead to a reshuffling if the current management cannot deliver.
Samsung said that it expected handset shipments to pick up by 10 percent in the third quarter from the second, and that it planned to release a new premium smartphone with a new design and material.
With its flagship Galaxy S5 smartphone outsold by the Apple iPhone 5s in May and its less expensive devices feeling the squeeze from Chinese rivals like Xiaomi, Samsung also vowed to revamp its mid-to-low-tier lineup with more aggressive pricing and a smaller set of products.
As Apple prepares to introduce a larger iPhone, posing a challenge to Samsung's specialty of outsize high-end devices, the spotlight is on Samsung's next Galaxy Note handset, expected to be introduced in September. The company once again hinted at a significant change in design for the device but offered no specifics on Thursday.
''They'll have to make sure that the Note 4 isn't a flop,'' Tom Kang, an analyst at Counterpoint, said before the earnings release.
