<title:>By Evelyn M. Rusli, Mike Spector and Douglas MacMillan 
<Date:>23 May 2014
<Content:>
Uber Inc. is in discussions with a group of fund managers for a large investment that could value the startup at more than $12 billion, people familiar with the matter said.
The five-year-old company, whose mobile app connects people with drivers for hire, is talking this week to several firms to raise near or above $500 million in funding, these people said. Possible investors include hedge funds, mutual fund BlackRock Inc. and private-equity firms General Atlantic and Technology Crossover Ventures, the people said.
Prospective investors are expected to formally express their interest by the end of this week. The company is aiming to close a deal in the next few weeks or by the end of the second quarter, these people said. The people also cautioned that a deal wasn't assured.
Bloomberg earlier reported that Uber is seeking to raise financing of more than $10 billion.
Uber is already one of the world's most valuable venture-backed startups. But a valuation of more than $12 billion would put it in an elite club.
Three tech startups -- home-rental site Airbnb Inc., file-storage service Dropbox Inc. and Chinese handset maker Xiaomi Inc. -- were valued at $10 billion apiece by investors in the past year. The funding round could also value Uber higher than two of the largest publicly traded car-rental companies. Hertz Global Holdings Inc. has a market value of about $12.8 billion and Avis Budget Group Inc. is valued at $5.8 billion.
Unlike those companies, which manage expensive fleets of vehicles and hundreds of rental offices, Uber simply maintains a network of riders and drivers, much like OpenTable Inc. operates a reservation system for diners and restaurants.
People who have looked at Uber's funding rounds are optimistic that the company could make as much as $1.5 billion in net revenue next year.
The ascent of Uber, led by its brash co-founder and chief executive, Travis Kalanick, has been meteoric, if at times controversial.
Founded in 2009, Uber's mobile app is upending the taxi industry by making it easy for people to hail cabs, whether taxis, limos or cars driven by average people looking to make extra money. The app shows a map of vehicles nearby and their estimated time of arrival. Uber takes a 20% cut on each ride and collects the largest fees from its premium service of black town cars and luxury sport-utility vehicles.
The service has proved popular among consumers, though Uber has faced criticism for so-called surge pricing during in-demand times. Uber also has clashed with regulators and taxi and limousine commissions eager to shut down the service or severely restrict it. The service also is fighting local rules so that it can open in markets such as Miami and Las Vegas.
The legal wrangling, however, has yet to stymie growth. Uber is now in more than 100 cities spanning 36 countries and offers services in several top cities around the world, including New York, San Francisco and Hong Kong.
Legal challenges haven't deterred would-be investors. It has raised more than $300 million, from venture firms such as Google Ventures and Benchmark and individual investors like Amazon.com Inc. CEO Jeff Bezos. Uber's previous round, completed last summer, valued the company at $3.5 billion.
For investors, part of Uber's allure is its grand ambition to be more than an on-demand car service. Mr. Kalanick, 37 years old, known for defending his company on Twitter, envisions Uber as a logistics network, not just for people, but also for goods and services. Uber has run limited promotions to deliver specialty items on demand, including Mariachi bands, kittens for cuddles and ice cream.
Uber is raising funds at a precarious time for technology startups. After a spate of multibillion-dollar financings and acquisitions, the technology investment market has cooled amid a sharp pullback in the equity markets and renewed skepticism that valuations for some startups have run ahead of fundamentals. Uber, which is battling several well-funded competitors, such as Lyft Inc., isn't immune from such skepticism, but it does benefit from its lead position in the market.
Uber is part of a growing family of apps in the so-called sharing economy, where users sell excess resources or their time to other users. A large portion of Uber's workforce is made up of part-time drivers. Airbnb Inc., company with a similar model that operates a home-rental marketplace, raised $450 million in April at a $10 billion valuation from an investor group led by private-equity firm TPG, also an Uber backer.
The spread of such services has become an issue for many regulators, who are often torn between supporting new technologies and upholding policies designed to protect consumers. Mr. Kalanick, who has described regulatory hurdles as evidence of the taxi industry's "war" on Uber, has bulked up his staff, most recently adding Ashwini Chhabra, a former top official at the New York Taxi and Limousine Commission, in May.
Uber's ability to justify its lofty valuation is partly dependent on navigating these legal tests and on squashing competitors, which have forced Uber to spend large sums on marketing and discounts. Nowhere is that challenge more apparent than on its home turf in San Francisco, where Uber has paid for roaming ads on vehicles prodding drivers to "shave the 'stache," a play on its rival Lyft's mascot, a pink mustache.
---
Kirsten Grind contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
