<title:>By Lorraine Luk   
<Date:>22 August 2014
<Content:>
SHENZHEN, China -- After overtaking Samsung Electronics Co. to become the third-largest smartphone maker in China, Coolpad, a brand little known outside of the country, is now setting its sights overseas.
For the first time, the Chinese smartphone maker is planning to spend millions of dollars this year to promote its brand in Southeast Asia, Europe and the U.S., where the company is gearing up for an expansion, Coolpad Group Ltd. Vice President Cao Jingsheng said.
The company, which began as a maker of pagers and telecommunications gear, has been seeking collaboration with new carriers and distribution partners outside China and aims to raise its revenue contribution from overseas to 30% by 2017 from less than 10% last year, Mr. Cao said in an interview. Coolpad is also interested in acquisitions abroad that can help beef up its content offerings, he said, declining to elaborate.
The company's global ambitions are part of a broader trend of Chinese smartphone vendors expanding outside their borders as growth slows at home.
China's smartphone market -- already the largest in the world -- is becoming saturated, and fierce price competition is keeping margins thin for most vendors. To seek new sources of growth and profit, China's major smartphone makers are selling more handsets abroad, especially in emerging markets. But Coolpad is far behind other big Chinese competitors in terms of international expansion: Huawei Technologies Co. and Lenovo Group Ltd. are already growing rapidly in emerging markets such as Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America.
Compared with Huawei and Lenovo, Coolpad lacks clear advantages, analysts say. Huawei, the world's second-largest supplier of telecom equipment, is taking advantage of its close relationships with wireless carriers around the world. Lenovo, the world's largest personal-computer maker, is better known than any other Chinese competitor as a consumer brand.
Still, Coolpad is growing quickly. In its home market, Coolpad ranked third with a market share of 11.5% in the second quarter, behind Lenovo's 12.5% and Xiaomi Inc.'s 12.4%, according to research firm IDC.
Coolpad says it was able to grow by offering advanced hardware at lower prices and because it has strong ties with all state-controlled Chinese carriers, which have broad distribution networks across the country.
The company was also one of the first smartphone makers to offer speedier fourth-generation smartphones in China, giving it the largest second-quarter market share in China's 4G smartphone market, said IDC analyst Tay Xiaohan.
Mr. Cao said Coolpad's cost advantage helped the company win a 4G phone order from U.S. wireless carrier MetroPCS Communications Inc. in 2012. He said MetroPCS's tender requested a 4G smartphone with a 3.5-inch display at the wholesale price of $99. Coolpad made a phone called Coolpad Quattro 4G with a 4-inch display at the same price and has shipped more than 1.3 million phones.
He also said Coolpad was the first vendor to launch a 4-inch smartphone below 1,000 yuan ($163) in China, in 2010.
Strong sales of smartphones lifted Coolpad's first-half profit 94% to 412.9 million Hong Kong dollars ($53 million).
"Since our operation has grown to a certain scale, we started considering investment and acquisition opportunities overseas . . . that can help drive our future growth," Mr. Cao said.
Coolpad rarely marketed its brand in the past because it had close ties with the Chinese carriers. But with the rise of e-commerce and different phone-distribution channels, the company wants to pursue a more active marketing campaign, he said.
---
Juro Osawa in Hong Kong contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
