<title:>By Robert Greskovic   
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
With a Chance of Rain
David H. Koch Theater
Through Nov. 2
Raymonda Divertissements
David H. Koch Theater
Through Nov. 1
Kontakthof
BAM Howard Gilman Opera House
Through Nov. 2
New York -- American Ballet Theatre won't turn 75 until next year, but its current season at the David H. Koch Theater initiates a yearlong celebration of that anniversary. The programming that makes up the run consciously reflects the troupe's past as well as its present.
Liam Scarlett's "With a Chance of Rain," which had its world premiere at the gala opening last week, takes inspiration from seven Sergei Rachmaninoff piano pieces. Both casts chosen by Mr. Scarlett to present his ballet did so confidently. But given the strange-to-the-point-of-schizophrenic dance they've been asked to perform, it looks as if the inexplicably named "With a Chance of Rain" will soon fall into the obscurity met by all the new ballets that ABT, then Ballet Theatre, offered in 1940, its inaugural year.
Mr. Scarlett has costumed his dancers in sleek, skintight versions of workout wear, with ice blue a central hue. Choreographically, his 30-minute ballet takes shape as a suite of sometimes acrobatic, fluent solos and duets that are intermittently tricked out with extraneous, gestural moments. These include such indecorous details as the groping of a woman's buttock, the jiggling of her bosom, some silly pelvic waggling, and the nonchalant dropping to the stage of women by their feckless partners.
By its end, which features the leading couple in a pas de deux -- to Rachmaninoff's "Elegie, Op. 3 No. 1" -- that presents its woman in variously expansive and melting modes, the ballet gets clear of its eccentric tics to climax on a rapturous note. For all its art, however, this soaring conclusion -- captured by either an impassioned Marcelo Gomes and a filament-fine Hee Seo or by a limpid Cory Stearns and a lyrical Isabella Boylston -- can't quite erase the weird and often off-putting details that dot the previous sections.
Also new to the repertory is "Raymonda Divertissements," a reworked excerpt from Marius Petipa's spectacle ballet that has been staged caringly by ABT artistic director Kevin McKenzie and company balletmaster Irina Kolpakova. The all-dance showcase to the lush, Hungarian-tinged music of Alexander Glazunov is dressed by Barbara Matera in fur-trimmed costumes inspired by those of the original 1898 St. Petersburg production.
While this presentation of 19th-century-style classical ballet feels somewhat slight due to its pared-back, about 20-minute length, it makes rigorous demands of its dancers, which ABT's men and women mostly met with ease. Particularly impressive so far have been Ms. Seo, for her shimmering line and finesse, and a radiant, authoritative Gillian Murphy. In the lesser solo roles, Skylar Brandt, Christine Shevchenko and -- most especially -- Devon Teuscher all stood out for their strength and clarity. So far, however neither of the leading men has shone especially brightly: James Whiteside showed more brashness than heroic mien; Alexandre Hammoudi looked insecure.
---
Brooklyn, N.Y. -- To mark the 30th anniversary of the New York debut of Tanztheater Wuppertal Pina Bausch at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, BAM is presenting "Kontakthof," a production originally titled "Kontakthof fur Damen und Herren" and created in 1978 by Bausch, who died in 2009.
Bausch's name has become synonymous with the genre of dance-theater, which the choreographer helped establish and led. She called upon her international troupe of dance-trained men and women to work with her to intermix physical movement with spoken elements associated with dramatic theater and delivered in an array of languages reflecting her performers' origins.
While the three-hour (including intermission) "Kontakthof" reveals much that is familiar from Bausch's usually lengthy, episodic productions of later years, it also offers a look at what might be called more "classical" Bausch. Unlike those later offerings -- which tended to be inspired by locales where the German-based company established temporary residence and which seemed more free-form and collagelike -- "Kontakthof" has a clearer beginning, middle and end. If you've never experienced the world of Pina Bausch, this might be as good a start as any.
The stage and costume designs are by Rolf Borzik, who until his death in 1980 regularly collaborated with Bausch. The setting -- that is, the "contact room" -- looks like an unremarkable social hall with a curtained stage and an array of 27 chairs. For the duration of "Kontakthof," it is peopled by a cast of 23 men and women. The music, as is typical for Bausch, is a set of recorded tracks; promotional materials categorize these as songs from the 1930s, often in German but somehow familiar.
The actions and interactions of the women, dressed in various kinds of cocktail dresses and usually high-heeled pumps, and the men in two-piece suits with shirts and ties, tread a line between the everyday and the absurd: blond-haired Julie Shanahan eats a green apple here; frizzy-haired Nazareth Panadero runs screaming from the sight of a toy mouse tossed at her feet there.
The work presents an arc that climactically takes us back to a wittily arranged circle dance -- where the men and women parade while gesturing casually with their hands and express utter boredom by, in unison, exhaling cheek-filling breaths. And, along the way, Bausch's choreographic theatrics range from large actions, such as frantic runs from imagined terrors, to the tiniest of moves, such as the tapping of a nose. All get executed with deft precision.
When "Kontakthof" takes us from a strange scene of 11 men delicately but rather creepily toying with Ms. Panadero's sleepy body, the bored circle dance that replaces it comes as a terrific release. Up to that point, recurring battles of the sexes come in many Bausch-styled varieties. Often the audience laughs; likewise you sense bewilderment in its attentive silence. Whatever reactions Bausch's stage pictures prompt, they're usually strong ones. Her special theatrics make no time for the ineffectual or noncommittal.
---
Mr. Greskovic writes about dance for the Journal.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
