<title:> Dialog Semi Q3 oper profit jumps on demand from gadget makers
<Date:>FRANKFURT Oct 29 (Reuters) - German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said on Wednesday its third-quarter operating profit rose 61 percent as makers of smartphones and tablets, who use its chips were increasing production.
<Content:>
Facebook Inc. chief Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday vowed to continue spending abundantly on new technologies in the coming years, explaining away a quarterly profit that took a hit from megadeals such as WhatsApp.
The social network's revenue rose 59% to $3.2 billion in the third quarter as it continues to make gains in mobile advertising at the expense of larger rival Google Inc.
But costs rose 41% during a quarter in which Facebook added roughly 1,200 new employees, most of them through several acquisitions including the $19 billion deal for messaging app WhatsApp and a $2 billion purchase of virtual-reality headset maker Oculus Rift.
On a conference call with analysts, finance chief David Wehner said he expects Facebook to incur higher expenses than normal in the quarters to come, in the wake of big investments in both engineering talent and acquisitions. He expects costs to rise as much as 75% for the year.
Mr. Wehner and other Facebook executives urged analysts and investors to look further into the future, and not just at the financial results before them. Mr. Zuckerberg kicked off the call by stressing the company's long-term goals stretch more than a decade into the future and require "investing aggressively."
Mr. Zuckerberg pointed to virtual reality, artificial intelligence and connecting people in remote parts of the planet to the Internet. "Products don't really get that interesting to turn into businesses until they have about a billion people using them," Mr. Zuckerberg said, adding that Facebook has a number of services that could reach that threshold in a "five-year time frame."
The remarks sent Facebook's stock, which had gained nearly 50% this year, tumbling 9.7% in after-hours trading to $72.90.
Facebook is in a high-stakes arms race with other cash-rich technology companies battling for supremacy in a constantly changing digital landscape. Google, Amazon.com Inc. and Apple Inc. are also on spending binges, whether through new acquisitions or research and development, to expand beyond their core businesses and into a wealth of new areas. Google, for example, has expanded into smartphones, streaming-video devices, eyewear, artificial intelligence and transportation in the past couple of years.
Despite the outlook, Mr. Wehner said in an interview he was happy with Facebook's performance in the quarter. "We feel like we're performing well by every measure."
Those measures include user growth, which Facebook is proving it can still add millions of new members per quarter especially overseas. The company added 33 million more monthly active users in the quarter to give it 1.35 billion, meaning nearly half the Internet-connected world now logs into the service on average once a month.
More impressive, growth in its daily active users -- the people Facebook says are the most engaged -- rose by 35 million, or 4.2%, from three months earlier, the highest jump in that rate since the second quarter of 2013. It means 64% of Facebook's users log in daily, a percentage that keeps climbing.
The results come a day after smaller rival Twitter Inc. showed signs again of slowing user growth, alarming shareholders who sent the stock down nearly 10% on Tuesday. Facebook now has well over four times the monthly users than Twitter.
Facebook nearly doubled its profit to a best-ever $802 million. About 66% of its ad revenue now comes from mobile devices, up from 62% three months ago and 49% a year earlier.
Investors have lauded Facebook for its ability to push that percentage ever higher, showing it can quickly adapt to changing trends in the marketplace, including the shift to smartphones and tablet computers.
According to eMarketer, Facebook will control 20% of the global mobile Internet ad industry by year-end. Google is seeing its grip on that market loosen. Its share of that $36 billion market is expected to drop to 45% from 50% two years ago.
"Facebook is the beachhead for mobile," said Rajeev Chand, an analyst at Rutberg & Co. For advertisers, "There's no other place to get reach and engagement at this scale," he said.
Facebook's mobile business has room to grow. The company has only just begun to sell ads on Instagram, the photo-sharing product it acquired in 2012. It also recently launched its first mobile-ad network called Audience Network, which allows companies to purchase ads targeted at Facebook users that appear on other partner apps, such as reality TV star Kim Kardashian's successful mobile game.
The social network also recently acquired WhatsApp, a popular text and voice communications app. It hasn't said how it plans to make money from WhatsApp, but investors are already looking at their watches. Facebook said in a filing on Tuesday that WhatsApp lost $232.5 million in the first half of this year, on revenue of $15.3 million from selling 99-cent annual subscriptions.
"I don't think we're anywhere close" to monetizing WhatsApp, said Dan Salmon, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.
Facebook has been able to add hundreds of millions of users over recent years despite near saturation. To accomplish that goal, it is focused mainly on developing countries, where declining smartphone prices and cheaper data connections have linked a generation of people to the Internet for the first time.
In the U.S. and Canada, Facebook added two million monthly users quarter-over-quarter, but in Asia and the rest of the world, it added 28 million. But Facebook made an average of $7.39 per user in the U.S. and Canada last quarter, and only $1.18 in Asia and 85 cents in the rest of the world, down a penny quarter-over-quarter.
---
Tess Stynes contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
