<title:> Waze Wants to Help You Beat the Morning Rush
<Date:>Summary: Waze CEO Noam Bardin speaks to WSJ's Deborah Kan about how crowd-sourced traffic works and how his company profits from the platform.
<Content:>
Around the world, new music is released nearly eight days a week.
In the U.S., new tunes come out on Tuesdays, never mind that Britain does it on Mondays and Japan on Wednesdays.
But now, hoping to stem piracy and boost long-sagging sales, the world¡¦s biggest recording companies want retailers in various nations to stop marching to the beat of their own drums and start issuing new tunes on the same day: Friday.
¡§Do you ever hear people say, ¡¥Thank God it¡¦s Tuesday¡¦?¡¨ asked Frances Moore, chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the record labels¡¦ trade group in London, which has led the movement.
But many U.S. retailers, who say they weren¡¦t consulted about the plan, are outraged. Among other concerns, they worry that a Friday release day will create supply problems and hurt midweek business without necessarily boosting it over the weekend.
¡§Global release day? Great idea. Friday? A really crazy, poor idea,¡¨ said Mike Fratt, general manager and buyer at Homer¡¦s Music in Omaha, Neb., adding that he didn¡¦t appreciate the ¡§weird, kind of creepy, behind-the-scenes decision¡¨ being ¡§crammed down our throats.¡¨
¡§When did [the IFPI] become the government?¡¨ he added.
Ms. Moore said the IFPI is ¡§working through concerns¡¨ but added that ¡§someone¡¦s got to change.¡¨
In the pre-Internet era of CDs, the lack of global coordination didn¡¦t matter much. But when Apple Inc. opened the iTunes Music Store a decade ago, making downloads available in some countries before others depending on their national release days, some music fans started getting jealous¡Xand in many cases desperate, often scouring free or illegal music sites for the newest releases rather than patiently waiting for their country¡¦s turn.
The phenomenon reached a fever pitch last year when the French electronic act Daft Punk released its album, ¡§Random Access Memories,¡¨ after a prolonged marketing campaign that had die-hard fans biting their nails. The album was released first on a Friday in Germany, Australia, Sweden and other Friday-first nations. Within minutes, one record company executive said he saw piracy spike ¡§through the roof¡¨ in parts of the world where the album wasn¡¦t yet for sale. Meanwhile, his social media feed was flooded with furious complaints from fans who couldn¡¦t buy the album because of their location.
Soon, major-label executives¡Xwho had been discussing a global-release day for years¡Xdecided to act.
The idea was floated at an IFPI board meeting in Berlin earlier this year, with the goal of getting the world to switch to Fridays by July 2015. Ms. Moore, the IFPI¡¦s CEO, said Friday was the ¡§most compelling¡¨ choice because toward the end of the week, fans are more active on social media and more likely to make spontaneous purchases.
An IFPI-commissioned study predicts that global releases could drive more than a 3% increase in global sales, with a Friday or Saturday release day yielding the best results.
Global recorded-music revenue fell 4% last year to $15 billion, according to the IFPI.
Crispin Hunt, a member of the former Britpop band the Longpigs, said he was helping the IFPI rally support because he thought global Friday releases would bring back ¡§a sense of occasion¡¨ to music, which he said ¡§has become a utility like water and electricity¡¨ heard when ¡§you go into the public toilets.¡¨
¡§When things come out sporadically, people go, ¡¥Oh, yeah, I¡¦ve heard that¡¦ ¡¨ said Mr. Hunt. ¡§It stops being exciting.¡¨ As for the practical challenges facing countries making the switch, ¡§I¡¦m pretty sure the logistics industry will be able to deal with it,¡¨ he said.
But music retailers in the U.S. and the U.K. aren¡¦t convinced Friday releases will boost business, and they want more evidence.
¡§The obvious retort is, ¡¥Who says?¡¦ ¡¨ wrote Kim Bayley, the head of Britain¡¦s Entertainment Retailers Association, in a recent article published in a British music-industry newsletter.
Michael Kurtz, who launched an annual ¡§Record Store Day¡¨ six years ago to drum up business for record stores, said he found it ¡§odd¡¨ that ¡§no one wants to speak to us about it,¡¨ given the obvious similarities. Mr. Kurtz supports picking one global release day, but worries that Friday releases could lead to mayhem over the weekend in the event of shipping errors or unexpected demand for certain albums.
Of course, Record Store Day falls on a Saturday, but ¡§that¡¦s like throwing a party¡Xyou can¡¦t throw a party on a Wednesday, because no one¡¦s going to show up,¡¨ he said.
Few countries appear to have based their long-standing national release days on rigorous research. Until 2009, for example, Germany had released new music on Mondays, apparently because it was simply the beginning of the week, said the head of Germany¡¦s music industry association, Dieter Gorny. The nation switched to Fridays in 2009 because consumers seem on Friday to have a ¡§better attitude for jumping into this kind of fun,¡¨ he said, though German record sales have fallen 7% since then, anyway, mirroring similar declines in most other countries.
In the U.S., John Marmaduke, former head of the retail chain Hastings Entertainment, takes credit for ¡§New Release Tuesdays.¡¨ He said his company asked the record labels to create a firmer street date in the 1980s because, without one, business had been complicated. Since Tuesday was one of the slowest days of the week, he said, ¡§we could garner that day as our own.¡¨
Tuesday also provided a ¡§safety day,¡¨ if product didn¡¦t arrive Monday, as well as ample time to replenish supplies before the weekend.
Tuesday is now also the day DVDs, Blu-ray discs and books come out.
Japanese labels chose Wednesdays so they would have a few days to monitor sales and prepare retailers with adequate supply for the weekends¡Xand they haven¡¦t yet jumped officially on the Friday bandwagon, said a spokesman for Japan¡¦s record-industry trade group.
Australia has shifted its release day twice over the past seven years¡Xeventually to Friday¡Xbut after several attempts at analysis, it¡¦s still ¡§impossible to tell¡¨ whether the moves made any difference, said Ian Harvey, president of the Australian Music Retailers Association. He said Fridays just seemed most ¡§sensible¡¨ given some of the issues that had arisen on other days. Some Saturday staffers weren¡¦t unpacking the releases as fast as weekday workers, for example, while Thursday releases ended up feeling premature. However, Australia didn¡¦t experience any logistical nightmares, he said.
¡§I¡¦m surprised people are as agitated as they appear to be,¡¨ said Mr. Harvey.
Mr. Fratt, in Nebraska, says he is busy encouraging independent record labels to ¡§not abide¡¨ if the street day is moved to Friday. ¡§Maybe we can derail this train,¡¨ he said.
