<title:>What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>27 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Three Chinese companies, including the country¡¦s biggest nuclear-energy firm, are planning to raise about $10 billion in initial public offerings in Hong Kong before the end of the year.
Apple¡¦s Mac helped the company log its biggest sales gains in the quarter with a 21% jump in unit sales, as its computer line passed the iPad to become the firm¡¦s second-biggest-selling product line, behind the iPhone.
Canon raised its profit outlook for the business year through December, despite the continuing fall in sales of digital cameras.
India¡¦s Adani wants to sell part of its stake in Australia¡¦s Abbot Point coal port as part of an expansion plan, hiring Morgan Stanley, which expressed concern about the project¡¦s environmental impact.
The Russian ruble, hurt this month by lower oil prices, hit another record low versus the euro-dollar basket.
Malaysia¡¦s biggest state-run pension fund plans to bid for a stake in one of the U.K.¡¦s largest port operators in a $2 billion deal.
China¡¦s benchmark index fell to its lowest level in five weeks, after a trading program allowing more foreign investment into mainland China was delayed.
Chiquita agreed to a buyout from a Brazilian orange-juice maker and investment firm for $742 million, after the banana company¡¦s shareholders rejected a separate merger.
Valeant hinted at the prospect of a higher takeover offer for Botox maker Allergan, which raised its guidance for the year, as both companies angle for support ahead of deadlines.
Merck tightened its outlook for the year as the effect of patent expirations again weighed on its sales for the most recent period.
World-Wide
Japan sent an official delegation to North Korea to examine progress on Pyongyang¡¦s probe into the fates of Japanese nationals the North abducted decades ago.
A global body criticized Pakistan¡¦s efforts to eradicate polio, saying it was the biggest obstacle to the goal of stopping world-wide transmission of the disease by the end of 2014.
Germany pledged a strong response to street violence after a far-right demonstration against Islamic fundamentalism in Cologne descended into a riot.
President Poroshenko¡¦s party began talks to form a ruling coalition in Ukraine¡¦s Parliament as vote counting continued after Sunday¡¦s parliamentary election.
A nurse being held at a Newark hospital under an Ebola quarantine is allowed to leave and will be transported to her home in Maine, New Jersey Gov. Christie said. He had faced criticism after the nurse documented her isolation. 
