<title:> The Morning Ledger: The Opposite of Share Dilution, and a Pay Boost to Boot
<Date:>The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each ...
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. -- Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which recently raised $25 billion in the world's biggest initial public offering in the U.S., is interested in partnering with Apple Inc. in financial payments, the Chinese company's executive chairman said.
Jack Ma made the comment during an interview at the WSJD Live global technology conference in California late Monday.
"I hope we can do something together," Mr. Ma said, though he cautioned that it should be a "marriage" that both sides want.
Alibaba is already a giant in payments. Its PayPal-like payments service, Alipay, has 300 million active users, Mr. Ma said at the conference. Apple jumped into payments this month with the launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps.
Later in the evening, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the same conference he is going to meet with Mr. Ma later this week to discuss potential partnerships. He said Alibaba has all the traits of a company that Apple would like to partner with, though he didn't specify whether Apple will work with Alibaba in payments.
Mr. Ma also said that while he is in California, he is looking into partnerships in the movie business.
"China will be the largest movie market in the world," Mr. Ma predicted.
Alibaba has been making a push into entertainment to capture a share of what it thinks will be a booming market in China.
In July, Alibaba announced a deal with Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. to make available on Alibaba set-top boxes offerings such as the "Twilight" hit vampire movie series and the TV show "Mad Men."
Since its IPO in September, Alibaba shares have risen 44% and the company has a market capitalization of more than $240 billion, making it larger than Amazon and eBay combined.
Asked whether Alibaba would be interested in buying PayPal after it splits from parent eBay Inc., Mr. Ma demurred. "I have my Alipay," he said.
Alibaba transacted nearly $300 billion in gross merchandise value in the 12 months through June on its Chinese retail marketplaces like Taobao and Tmall.
Mr. Ma also said that he sees "great opportunities in e-commerce in the U.S."
In June, Alibaba launched a U.S. shopping website, 11 Main, and Mr. Ma noted there is room for more competition beyond the big U.S. e-commerce giants.
---
Daisuke Wakabayshi contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
