<title:> Speciality glass maker Corning's quarterly net sales rise 23 pct
<Date:>Oct 28 (Reuters) - Speciality glass maker Corning Inc reported a 23 percent rise in quarterly net sales, helped by higher demand for its glass used in TVs and smartphones.
<Content:>
Good morning from Laguna Beach,
On the first day of our WSJDLive conference, we explored questions about technology¡¦s ever-increasing role on the world stage. Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma said that the e-commerce giant is interested in partnering with Apple in financial payments, cautioning that it should be a ¡§marriage¡¨ that both sides want. When I asked Apple CEO Tim Cook about the possibility, he expressed interest. Mr. Cook also told me that more than one million credit cards were activated on the company¡¦s new Apple Pay service within 72 hours of its debut last week. Today, we will hear the perspectives of investors, including Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel. With the conference in the backdrop, we also examine challenges that come with advancements in technology, such as regulatory concerns on the web. In our revealing example, law-enforcement officials want Icann, the closest thing the Internet has to a regulator, to take action against websites suspected of selling drugs without a prescription, but the Internet gatekeeper says its powers are limited. And speaking of investors, Twitter shares tumbled yesterday after the messaging service reported slowing user growth. For more coverage of our event¡Xwhich will continue through Wednesday¡Xfollow #WSJDLive on Twitter, and get the latest news and videos here.
Gasoline prices have dropped below $3 a gallon at most U.S. gas stations, offering Americans a welcome break at the pump. But we find that the news also carries a thorny underside. Our story looks at how the latest drop is spurring debate over how much falling prices will squeeze domestic producers. High oil prices have driven the recent energy boom, making it possible to use costly drilling techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing. While the price drop gives consumers a lift before the holidays, producers could see profits shrink and investors may rethink their investments in the sector. We note that Wall Street¡¦s oil bulls are already throwing in the towel, conceding that the 25% drop in crude prices since June won¡¦t be reversed soon. But perhaps the most crucial question is what lower prices mean for oil-rich states such as Texas, Oklahoma and North Dakota. ¡§If the wheels come off, the energy-producing economies are going to suffer,¡¨ noted a senior director at Rice University¡¦s Center for Energy Studies.
Federal officials rejected the mandatory quarantines that at least two states have ordered to contain the spread of Ebola. We report that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that people deemed to be at high risk of developing the virus voluntarily isolate themselves from others for 21 days¡Xcountering New York and New Jersey, which imposed more stringent measures. We note that the news comes as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie¡¦s administration said that a nurse held in a tent in a Newark hospital would be privately transported to her home in Maine. She had publicly challenged her isolation over the weekend. Meanwhile, we find that a 5-year-old boy who had been showing Ebola-like symptoms after recently returning to New York from West Africa doesn¡¦t have the disease, a spokesman for New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation said yesterday.
While many people dread the cold season, some actually cheer up and draw energy from the long, dark days of winter. Our Work & Family columnist Sue Shellenbarger looks at new research that is shedding light on the possible causes of summer blues and ways to cope. ¡§People complain about snow, while I hope every potential flake turns into a blizzard,¡¨ notes one sufferer. Potential reasons for hating the summer include aversion to humidity, allergies to pollen and psychological triggers such as hating to sweat. Descending into the New York City subway in the warm weather triggers this primal response from another loather of summer: ¡§It¡¦s like Satan¡¦s basement.¡¨ For a deeper look at research on seasonal mood swings and methods to deal with it, be sure to read Sue¡¦s column.
¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 
