<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
Dicey Investment In Chinese Nuclear
Nuclear energy: It's risky stuff. Hence, there is often a heavy degree of government control over it -- which makes it a doubly risky investment proposition.
Especially when that government is China's.
A number of Chinese state-owned nuclear companies are going public these days. CGN Power, the country's largest with 9.4 gigawatts of operating capacity, will likely offer $3 billion of new shares in Hong Kong next month, reports The Wall Street Journal.
A small affiliate, CGN Meiya Power, raised $262 million in Hong Kong last month and has seen its shares rise by 20% since. Meanwhile, another top operator, China National Nuclear Power, also plans an initial public offering.
Once listed, these will be among a handful of stocks globally, including the likes of Exelon of the U.S. and EDF of France, offering high or pure exposure to nuclear energy.
And while much of the rest of the world is ambivalent about or hostile to nuclear energy, Beijing has big expansion plans. The Chinese government suspended new project approvals after Japan's Fukushima accident in March 2011.
But the need to diversify away from smog-causing coal has put its nuclear ambitions back on track. China now targets nearly tripling the nuclear capacity that is up and running to 58 gigawatts by 2020. The IPOs will help fund that ambition.
The state's involvement can cut both ways, though. CGN sells most of its output to state-run electricity grids at regulated tariffs. For power plants that began operating before 2013, these tariffs are tailored to yield a "reasonable" profit, according to CGN's prospectus. Yet its net profit has fallen since 2011 because of either surging costs or weakening sales.
For newer plants, the tariff is supposed to be fixed -- except when it isn't. In a bid to avoid competition, these plants are required to cut tariffs if neighboring coal-fired power is cheaper. That is quite likely as coal prices spiral downward.
Energy prices are heavily regulated precisely because consumers are rather attached to light and heat. That makes them subject to political, as well as economic, forces.
In France, for example, shares in state-run EDF tanked 14% in June when the government scrapped a planned tariff increase. There is even more reason to worry in China, because governments could keep down power prices as a stimulus to troubled heavy industries.
Growth prospects are high, which is likely one reason that CGN already trades at 10.9 times 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That is far higher than EDF's 4.8 times or Exelon's 6.6 times.
Double-digit multiples are no doubt tempting for IPO bankers but look too much for a large nuclear generator carrying this much political risk. The problem is, CGN's balance sheet means it needs a high multiple, or fast growth in profit, to make its IPO math work.
Net debt as of this March is a hefty 5.1 times 2013 Ebitda, and still high at four times even if related-party loans are excluded. And less than 10% of the IPO proceeds are earmarked for paying off borrowings. As if nuclear power wasn't risky enough.
-- Abheek Bhattacharya
StanChart Hit by Ghosts of Growth Past
Standard Chartered's growth strategy is coming home to roost.
Asia had been the growth engine of the U.K.-listed bank, which notched up double-digit annual profit increases frequently in the past decade. However, on Tuesday the same region was behind the bank's second profit warning this year, sending its shares plunging 8.8% to a five-year low.
Impairment charges due to bad loans, made mostly in emerging markets, rose 86% in the third quarter and are up by 36% for the first nine months of this year. In its business-banking and financial-markets division alone, Standard Chartered's main source of growth, impairments could rise by 60% this year, says Jefferies.
This sets off a potential domino effect: As well as taking a bite out of earnings, bad credit can mean higher risk weightings in its loan book, putting further pressure on capital ratios. As loans deteriorate, Standard Chartered has had to reduce risk in its portfolio. But that has resulted in a drop in lending -- which in turn lowers future revenue growth. At the end of the third quarter, its loans to customers had fallen 3% compared with three months before.
Standard Chartered has been hit by a perfect storm of macro events, with lower-than-expected growth in emerging markets, declining commodity prices and a strengthening dollar with the specter of rising rates.
But the bank is also suffering from idiosyncratic problems that hark back to its growth strategy of chasing revenue ahead of controlling risk. Compared with HSBC, another U.K. bank with roots in emerging markets, Standard Chartered has suffered a higher rate of loan impairments so far this year. The former hasn't reported third-quarter results, but in the first half of 2014, HSBC's loan impairments fell 40% year on year.
Meanwhile, Standard Chartered's total loan-loss reserves compared with nonperforming loans in business banking dropped to 46% in 2013 from 91% in 2007, notes Jefferies.
Standard Chartered is trading at 8.3 times 2015 earnings, compared with HSBC at about 10 times. But as Standard Chartered battles its impairment problems, it also risks eating into tomorrow's earnings growth. Investors still risk getting egg on their faces.
-- Thao Hua
Overheard
James Dimon won't like this.
Back in 2011, J.P. Morgan Chase and its chief relinquished the title of biggest U.S. bank by market value to Wells Fargo. Now comes a further indignity: J.P. Morgan's market value late last week was overtaken by Facebook's. This happened as the tech giant, which reports results Tuesday, issued new shares to fund its purchase of WhatsApp. Markets didn't ding Facebook for the dilution, so its value rose. It was worth $224 billion Monday versus about $221 billion for J.P. Morgan.
Facebook joins the ranks of tech stalwarts such as Apple, Google and Microsoft, all with market values bigger than J.P. Morgan's. Tech's dominance is really clear when you look at Apple: J.P. Morgan and Wells have a combined market value equal to only three-quarters that of the iPhone maker. No wonder graduates increasingly choose Silicon Valley over Wall Street these days.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
