<title:>By Douglas MacMillan, Shira Ovide and Danny Yadron 
<Date:>28 October 2014
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XUniversal Music Group Chairman Lucian Grainge said he wants to see more evidence of a sustainable business model before partnering with digital-music startup SoundCloud.
In comments at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference on Tuesday, the record mogul said there is an ¡§opportunity for SoundCloud to create incredible revenue.¡¨ But, Mr. Grainge said, he and SoundCloud would first have to discuss ¡§what the business plan is going to be.¡¨
The interview was one of three sessions at the conference featuring entertainment-industry pioneers, including Mr. Grainge, SoundCloud founder Alexander Ljung and DreamWorks Animation CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg. In separate conversations on Tuesday, the three men discussed emerging business models for creating new forms of revenue for the music and film industries.
They also all managed to dodge or deflect some of the many rumors about partnerships swirling in an industry fast moving toward consolidation.
Mr. Ljung, appearing after Mr. Grainge, wouldn¡¦t comment directly on a potential partnership with Universal. The startup¡¦s first ad offering, called On SoundCloud, was announced earlier this year, without support from any of the major labels.
¡§We won¡¦t have everybody in from day one,¡¨ Mr. Ljung said. ¡§Our intention is to create something that¡¦s valuable for everybody and so valuable that everybody wants to be in. We¡¦re not there yet.¡¨
The pressure on Mr. Ljung to work with the major labels is likely to increase. SoundCloud has 175 million users, but said it lost $29 million last year on revenue of just $14 million.
For his part, Mr. Grainge didn¡¦t contest reports that Universal may team up with Google Inc.¡¦s YouTube for a subscription music service.
¡§We¡¦re very good partners with people where we¡¦re aligned,¡¨ he said. But, he added, ¡§I can¡¦t comment on something that hasn¡¦t been announced.¡¨
The Wall Street Journal has previously reported that Universal is working on a paid music service with YouTube.
The mega label¡¦s latest foray illustrates how the music industry is reaching far and wide to maintain revenue amid declining sales of CDs and downloaded music.
¡§We¡¦re in the experimental phase at the moment,¡¨ he said. ¡§The last two or three years has been about stopping the decline and creating as many platforms and as many services and opportunities to capture money.¡¨
The Journal last week reported that music sales at Apple¡¦s iTunes Store have fallen 13% to 14% worldwide since the start of the year, much steeper than the decline in 2013. Mr. Grainge said that subscription services like Spotify are making up for decline in download sales but not for the decline in record sales.
Mr. Katzenberg¡¦s non-answer came when he was asked to discuss recent discussions with Japanese telecom giant SoftBank. The Journal reported the discussions could have led to a content-distribution partnership, or a SoftBank investment in DreamWorks rather than an outright acquisition.
Mr. Katzenberg declined to comment, calling SoftBank Chief Executive Masayoshi Son ¡§one of the greatest entrepreneurs in the world.¡¨
The growing importance of Chinese consumers, and Chinese tech companies, has been a recurring theme at the WSJD conference this week. Mr. Katzenberg, who was among the first Hollywood executives to cultivate ties with China¡¦s movie industry, said the country was essential to the future of the entertainment business.
¡§To not be there, I think is to miss an extraordinary opportunity,¡¨ Mr. Katzenberg said Tuesday night.
Still, he acknowledged the risks of making movies in China, where DreamWorks and other foreign studios are required to work with local investment partners. ¡§You can¡¦t be there and not play by their rules,¡¨ he said.
