<title:>By Yun-Hee Kim and Deborah Kan   
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. -- Chinese social-network company Renren Inc. is planning to sell some noncore businesses as it works to sustain profits and is considering potential investments in the U.S. and Hong Kong, its chief executive said.
"The business in the current form -- it's difficult to make money. We are transforming fundamentally to change how we do business," Joe Chen, also the company's founder and chairman, said in an interview Monday on the sidelines of the WSJD Live global technology conference.
Renren was once described as the Facebook of China when it first gained prominence as a platform resembling the social-media service offered by Facebook Inc., which is blocked in that country. Founded in 2005, the New York Stock Exchange-listed, Beijing-based company has since diversified into services including online games, online video and e-commerce, as well as providing group buying and professional social-networking services similar to LinkedIn.
Despite having 214 million monthly active users on its platform at the end of June, Renren hasn't been steadily profitable since its inception in 2005, Mr. Chen said. In the second quarter it reported earnings of $31.3 million, including an $86 million gain from short-term investments, on revenue of $25 million. It reported a $30.4 million loss from operations during the quarter.
The third quarter could be tougher. It estimates revenue declined to between $19 million and $21 million during the period. Mr. Chen blamed rising competition from giants like Tencent Holdings Ltd., the Chinese company behind the popular mobile-messaging app WeChat, which has more than 438 million monthly active users.
"The social-media landscape is increasingly being dominated by Tencent. Operationally, we aren't doing so well because there are dominant players," he said.
Mr. Chen wouldn't say which businesses the company wants to divest next after Renren sold its e-commerce operations to Baidu Inc. in August last year. The company is also open to joint ventures with bigger technology companies in areas outside of social networking, which is its core business.
But he said more strategic investments are likely because Renren wants to invest in innovative startups that could further the company's growth. The company is considering an investment in a Hong Kong-based startup, though Mr. Chen declined to give further details. The company has about $800 million set aside for strategic investments, he said.
"We don't want to be too complacent -- but not too aggressive -- and we're on the lookout for the best deals," he said.
Renren has already made some investments in the U.S. as part of its plans to look beyond China for opportunities. For example, about a half year ago, the company invested $1 million in Yik Yak, an Atlanta-based social-media app available on phones running Google Inc.'s Android and Apple Inc's iOS mobile-operating systems. In May, Renren led a $31 million investment in Fundrise, a Washington, D.C., real-estate crowdfunding platform. It is also the largest shareholder in Social Finance Inc., a startup that offers inexpensive student loans.
Mr. Chen said that several years ago, the company looked at potentially investing in the popular messaging app Snapchat, which has garnered interest from tech giants including Yahoo Inc., China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Facebook.
Tencent ended up buying a stake in Snapchat for an undisclosed amount last year. People familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal in recent weeks that Yahoo has committed an investment in Snapchat at a $10 billion valuation.
Two areas where Renren is looking to expand include student financing -- offering loans to students in mainland China for a fee -- as well as online education.
"These are different ways to monetize. We are just starting in this area but we're going after these markets that are being ignored," Mr. Chen said.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
