
 Marc Andreesson: More Billion-Dollar Tech Unicorns
The Wall Street Journal Digits, 29 October 2014, 543 words, (English)
Summary: Is Silicon Valley headed for another tech bubble? Tech investor Marc Andreesson says valuations look high but still predicts a rise in the number of billion-dollar tech companies.
Document MMSAWD0020141029eaat00002

 Heads and Tails of All Those Health Wearables
The Wall Street Journal Digits, 29 October 2014, 395 words, (English)
Summary: From Apple¡¦s Health Kit, to Google¡¦s Fit and Samsung¡¦s SAMI, it¡¦s getting hard to keep track of all those health wearables. WSJ¡¦s Jason Bellini helps break it down in this Short Answer.
Document MMSAWD0020141029eaat00001



Business
LG Electronics¡¦ Net Profit Surges; Company Sells Record Number of Smartphones in Third Quarter

By Min-Jeong Lee 
440 words
28 October 2014
22:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

SEOUL¡XLG Electronics Inc. said Wednesday its third-quarter net profit nearly doubled from a year earlier after it sold a record number of smartphones.

The South Korean electronics company continued to eat into its bigger rival Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s market share for mobile devices, particularly at home. But globally, LG is struggling against Apple Inc. and faces a newer challenge from fast-rising Chinese handset makers.

LG said its net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 87% to 203 billion won ($194 million) from 108.5 billion won a year earlier.

The company sold 16.8 million smartphones during the quarter, up 39% from 12 million sold a year earlier and a record for the company. Operating profit doubled to 461 billion won, with the mobile division accounting for more than a third of profits, the company said.

Following its second consecutive quarter of profit in the mobile division, LG said it will stick to a two-track smartphone strategy spearheaded by the company¡¦s premium G series and cheaper L series models.

Local analysts estimate LG¡¦s global market share came close to 5% in the latest quarter, a tad higher from last year¡¦s levels. But a continued tug of war is expected against upstart Chinese brands such as Xiaomi Inc., which is estimated by analysts to have sold a similar number of smartphones as LG during the same period.

LG is better positioned in South Korea, where it grabbed a 27% handset market share in the third quarter, its highest in years, and up from just 18% a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research. During the same period, Samsung¡¦s share slipped to 60% from 66%, according to the same estimates.

LG executives hope the progress it is making at home will translate into overseas sales.

¡§Before, they [overseas partners] didn¡¦t even spare us a glance. But now, most carriers take our products without any doubt,¡¨ said Chris Yie, a vice president for marketing at LG¡¦s mobile division, said in a recent interview.

The number of global carriers that placed orders for LG¡¦s latest G3 smartphone at launch was roughly 170, up by 30% from the previous model, Mr. Yie said. The big four U.S. telecom companies¡XVerizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., T-Mobile US Inc. and Sprint Corp.¡Xall sell the G3. Analysts estimate Samsung to have had roughly 200 carrier partners for the launch of its latest top-of-the-line model, the Galaxy S5.

Document WSJO000020141029eaat0015q


 Investment In Tokopedia May Be the Boost Indonesian Ecommerce Needs
WSJ Blogs, 03:02, 29 October 2014, 830 words, By Aulia Masna, (English)
A $100 million investment in popular Indonesian online marketplace Tokopedia has been cheered by those in the company. But it could mean even more funding for similar startups, says Tokopedia CEO and co-founder William Tanuwijaya.
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaat001gt



Markets
Xiaomi¡¦s $1 Billion Loan Draws 29 Banks; Smartphone Maker Attracts Interest as Bankers Look for Next Big Chinese Tech Deal

By Prudence Ho 
258 words
28 October 2014
22:42
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Bankers still feeling the buzz of Alibaba Group¡¦s blockbuster listing last month have been casting around for the next big tech deal out of China. If the appetite by creditors to lend to Xiaomi Inc. is anything to go by, this four-year-old smartphone maker could be it.

Xiaomi, which sells more smartphones than even Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in China, has borrowed $1 billion from 29 banks for a three-year loan, its first move to tap overseas funds for cash. The smartphone maker has moved beyond China to sell in India and Indonesia, and a person familiar with the loan said it is raising the funds from the loan to expand overseas.

The three-year, $1 billion loan is set to close Friday, with Brazil¡¦s Banco do Brasil to Japan¡¦s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ among the 29 that have joined Wall Street and Chinese banks as lenders, people familiar with the matter said.

The lead bankers on the loan are Deutsche Bank AG, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, with Credit Suisse Group and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also taking part.

In attracting so many banks to its loan, Xiaomi has beaten Alibaba, which borrowed $8 billion last year from 22 banks, many of whom, bankers said, were eager to get in on the Chinese e-commerce giant¡¦s IPO mandate.

Document WSJO000020141029eaat001e1




Dialog Semi Q3 oper profit jumps on demand from gadget makers

185 words
29 October 2014
01:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

FRANKFURT, Oct 29 (Reuters) - German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said on Wednesday its third-quarter operating profit rose 61 percent as makers of smartphones and tablets, who use its chips were increasing production.

Third-quarter earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) excluding special items, rose to $51.7 million beating the average of $41 million in a Reuters poll.

Dialog makes chips which manage power consumption of consumer gadgets such as smartphones and tablets. Apple and Samsung Electronics are among their main customers.

"We have successfully delivered the first phase of the steep ramp of new products for our customers. Now the focus turns to pushing ahead with completing that ramp in what will be a very busy end of the year for us and our customers," Dialog's Chief Executive Jalal Bagherli said in a statement.

The company said it expected full year revenue of between $1.11-1.15 billion, while gross margins are expected to improve. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by Kirsti Knolle) 

Released: 2014-10-29T07:59:44.000Z

Document LBA0000020141029eaat007ih


 Dialog Semi Q3 oper profit jumps on demand from gadget makers
Reuters, 01:59, 29 October 2014, 274 words, (English)
FRANKFURT Oct 29 (Reuters) - German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said on Wednesday its third-quarter operating profit rose 61 percent as makers of smartphones and tablets, who use its chips were increasing production.
Document WCLBA00020141029eaat002bo



Facebook Vows Aggressive Spending --- Zuckerberg Defends Long-Term Bets; Social Network Predicts Expenses Could Jump 75% This Year

By Reed Albergotti   
993 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Facebook Inc. chief Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday vowed to continue spending abundantly on new technologies in the coming years, explaining away a quarterly profit that took a hit from megadeals such as WhatsApp.

The social network's revenue rose 59% to $3.2 billion in the third quarter as it continues to make gains in mobile advertising at the expense of larger rival Google Inc.

But costs rose 41% during a quarter in which Facebook added roughly 1,200 new employees, most of them through several acquisitions including the $19 billion deal for messaging app WhatsApp and a $2 billion purchase of virtual-reality headset maker Oculus Rift.

On a conference call with analysts, finance chief David Wehner said he expects Facebook to incur higher expenses than normal in the quarters to come, in the wake of big investments in both engineering talent and acquisitions. He expects costs to rise as much as 75% for the year.

Mr. Wehner and other Facebook executives urged analysts and investors to look further into the future, and not just at the financial results before them. Mr. Zuckerberg kicked off the call by stressing the company's long-term goals stretch more than a decade into the future and require "investing aggressively."

Mr. Zuckerberg pointed to virtual reality, artificial intelligence and connecting people in remote parts of the planet to the Internet. "Products don't really get that interesting to turn into businesses until they have about a billion people using them," Mr. Zuckerberg said, adding that Facebook has a number of services that could reach that threshold in a "five-year time frame."

The remarks sent Facebook's stock, which had gained nearly 50% this year, tumbling 9.7% in after-hours trading to $72.90.

Facebook is in a high-stakes arms race with other cash-rich technology companies battling for supremacy in a constantly changing digital landscape. Google, Amazon.com Inc. and Apple Inc. are also on spending binges, whether through new acquisitions or research and development, to expand beyond their core businesses and into a wealth of new areas. Google, for example, has expanded into smartphones, streaming-video devices, eyewear, artificial intelligence and transportation in the past couple of years.

Despite the outlook, Mr. Wehner said in an interview he was happy with Facebook's performance in the quarter. "We feel like we're performing well by every measure."

Those measures include user growth, which Facebook is proving it can still add millions of new members per quarter especially overseas. The company added 33 million more monthly active users in the quarter to give it 1.35 billion, meaning nearly half the Internet-connected world now logs into the service on average once a month.

More impressive, growth in its daily active users -- the people Facebook says are the most engaged -- rose by 35 million, or 4.2%, from three months earlier, the highest jump in that rate since the second quarter of 2013. It means 64% of Facebook's users log in daily, a percentage that keeps climbing.

The results come a day after smaller rival Twitter Inc. showed signs again of slowing user growth, alarming shareholders who sent the stock down nearly 10% on Tuesday. Facebook now has well over four times the monthly users than Twitter.

Facebook nearly doubled its profit to a best-ever $802 million. About 66% of its ad revenue now comes from mobile devices, up from 62% three months ago and 49% a year earlier.

Investors have lauded Facebook for its ability to push that percentage ever higher, showing it can quickly adapt to changing trends in the marketplace, including the shift to smartphones and tablet computers.

According to eMarketer, Facebook will control 20% of the global mobile Internet ad industry by year-end. Google is seeing its grip on that market loosen. Its share of that $36 billion market is expected to drop to 45% from 50% two years ago.

"Facebook is the beachhead for mobile," said Rajeev Chand, an analyst at Rutberg & Co. For advertisers, "There's no other place to get reach and engagement at this scale," he said.

Facebook's mobile business has room to grow. The company has only just begun to sell ads on Instagram, the photo-sharing product it acquired in 2012. It also recently launched its first mobile-ad network called Audience Network, which allows companies to purchase ads targeted at Facebook users that appear on other partner apps, such as reality TV star Kim Kardashian's successful mobile game.

The social network also recently acquired WhatsApp, a popular text and voice communications app. It hasn't said how it plans to make money from WhatsApp, but investors are already looking at their watches. Facebook said in a filing on Tuesday that WhatsApp lost $232.5 million in the first half of this year, on revenue of $15.3 million from selling 99-cent annual subscriptions.

"I don't think we're anywhere close" to monetizing WhatsApp, said Dan Salmon, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.

Facebook has been able to add hundreds of millions of users over recent years despite near saturation. To accomplish that goal, it is focused mainly on developing countries, where declining smartphone prices and cheaper data connections have linked a generation of people to the Internet for the first time.

In the U.S. and Canada, Facebook added two million monthly users quarter-over-quarter, but in Asia and the rest of the world, it added 28 million. But Facebook made an average of $7.39 per user in the U.S. and Canada last quarter, and only $1.18 in Asia and 85 cents in the rest of the world, down a penny quarter-over-quarter.

---

Tess Stynes contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141029eaat00032




LEISURE & ARTS
Dance: Old, New and Blue

By Robert Greskovic   
1,042 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
D5
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

With a Chance of Rain

David H. Koch Theater

Through Nov. 2

Raymonda Divertissements

David H. Koch Theater

Through Nov. 1

Kontakthof

BAM Howard Gilman Opera House

Through Nov. 2

New York -- American Ballet Theatre won't turn 75 until next year, but its current season at the David H. Koch Theater initiates a yearlong celebration of that anniversary. The programming that makes up the run consciously reflects the troupe's past as well as its present.

Liam Scarlett's "With a Chance of Rain," which had its world premiere at the gala opening last week, takes inspiration from seven Sergei Rachmaninoff piano pieces. Both casts chosen by Mr. Scarlett to present his ballet did so confidently. But given the strange-to-the-point-of-schizophrenic dance they've been asked to perform, it looks as if the inexplicably named "With a Chance of Rain" will soon fall into the obscurity met by all the new ballets that ABT, then Ballet Theatre, offered in 1940, its inaugural year.

Mr. Scarlett has costumed his dancers in sleek, skintight versions of workout wear, with ice blue a central hue. Choreographically, his 30-minute ballet takes shape as a suite of sometimes acrobatic, fluent solos and duets that are intermittently tricked out with extraneous, gestural moments. These include such indecorous details as the groping of a woman's buttock, the jiggling of her bosom, some silly pelvic waggling, and the nonchalant dropping to the stage of women by their feckless partners.

By its end, which features the leading couple in a pas de deux -- to Rachmaninoff's "Elegie, Op. 3 No. 1" -- that presents its woman in variously expansive and melting modes, the ballet gets clear of its eccentric tics to climax on a rapturous note. For all its art, however, this soaring conclusion -- captured by either an impassioned Marcelo Gomes and a filament-fine Hee Seo or by a limpid Cory Stearns and a lyrical Isabella Boylston -- can't quite erase the weird and often off-putting details that dot the previous sections.

Also new to the repertory is "Raymonda Divertissements," a reworked excerpt from Marius Petipa's spectacle ballet that has been staged caringly by ABT artistic director Kevin McKenzie and company balletmaster Irina Kolpakova. The all-dance showcase to the lush, Hungarian-tinged music of Alexander Glazunov is dressed by Barbara Matera in fur-trimmed costumes inspired by those of the original 1898 St. Petersburg production.

While this presentation of 19th-century-style classical ballet feels somewhat slight due to its pared-back, about 20-minute length, it makes rigorous demands of its dancers, which ABT's men and women mostly met with ease. Particularly impressive so far have been Ms. Seo, for her shimmering line and finesse, and a radiant, authoritative Gillian Murphy. In the lesser solo roles, Skylar Brandt, Christine Shevchenko and -- most especially -- Devon Teuscher all stood out for their strength and clarity. So far, however neither of the leading men has shone especially brightly: James Whiteside showed more brashness than heroic mien; Alexandre Hammoudi looked insecure.

---

Brooklyn, N.Y. -- To mark the 30th anniversary of the New York debut of Tanztheater Wuppertal Pina Bausch at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, BAM is presenting "Kontakthof," a production originally titled "Kontakthof fur Damen und Herren" and created in 1978 by Bausch, who died in 2009.

Bausch's name has become synonymous with the genre of dance-theater, which the choreographer helped establish and led. She called upon her international troupe of dance-trained men and women to work with her to intermix physical movement with spoken elements associated with dramatic theater and delivered in an array of languages reflecting her performers' origins.

While the three-hour (including intermission) "Kontakthof" reveals much that is familiar from Bausch's usually lengthy, episodic productions of later years, it also offers a look at what might be called more "classical" Bausch. Unlike those later offerings -- which tended to be inspired by locales where the German-based company established temporary residence and which seemed more free-form and collagelike -- "Kontakthof" has a clearer beginning, middle and end. If you've never experienced the world of Pina Bausch, this might be as good a start as any.

The stage and costume designs are by Rolf Borzik, who until his death in 1980 regularly collaborated with Bausch. The setting -- that is, the "contact room" -- looks like an unremarkable social hall with a curtained stage and an array of 27 chairs. For the duration of "Kontakthof," it is peopled by a cast of 23 men and women. The music, as is typical for Bausch, is a set of recorded tracks; promotional materials categorize these as songs from the 1930s, often in German but somehow familiar.

The actions and interactions of the women, dressed in various kinds of cocktail dresses and usually high-heeled pumps, and the men in two-piece suits with shirts and ties, tread a line between the everyday and the absurd: blond-haired Julie Shanahan eats a green apple here; frizzy-haired Nazareth Panadero runs screaming from the sight of a toy mouse tossed at her feet there.

The work presents an arc that climactically takes us back to a wittily arranged circle dance -- where the men and women parade while gesturing casually with their hands and express utter boredom by, in unison, exhaling cheek-filling breaths. And, along the way, Bausch's choreographic theatrics range from large actions, such as frantic runs from imagined terrors, to the tiniest of moves, such as the tapping of a nose. All get executed with deft precision.

When "Kontakthof" takes us from a strange scene of 11 men delicately but rather creepily toying with Ms. Panadero's sleepy body, the bored circle dance that replaces it comes as a terrific release. Up to that point, recurring battles of the sexes come in many Bausch-styled varieties. Often the audience laughs; likewise you sense bewilderment in its attentive silence. Whatever reactions Bausch's stage pictures prompt, they're usually strong ones. Her special theatrics make no time for the ineffectual or noncommittal.

---

Mr. Greskovic writes about dance for the Journal.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141029eaat0000d




PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
Apple Pay Is a Breeze to Use, But Still Too Hard To Find

By Geoffrey A. Fowler   
1,365 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
D1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

You no longer have to be a geek to pay for something with your phone.

Last week, owners of the iPhone 6 got Apple Pay, a free service that lets you buy things at stores and inside apps using a digital version of your credit card and a thumbprint. Shortly after Apple switched it on, I walked to McDonald's without my wallet and bought McNuggets with a wave of my iPhone. It was so easy, the cashier didn't even notice.

PayPal, Google and others have been trying for years to get us to pay with phones. But their systems made shopping harder, not easier. Apple Pay doesn't require you to set up a special account or preload it with money. There's no app you must open to pay, no special password to remember. Checkout is more secure even than with plastic.

Apple Pay changes the way we look at our phones, not to mention wallets full of credit cards and bits of paper. It is the first such service I trust to be secure and consistently easy -- fundamentals to taking a digital wallet mainstream.

But it is also just getting started. For the past week, I've been using Apple Pay everywhere I could find it -- not nearly enough places for me to leave my wallet at home. A few shortsighted chains have even pulled support for it.

To change our habits of paying with cash and plastic, Apple Pay needs more capabilities, such as standing in for all of your buy-10-get-1-free punch cards, to give you more reasons to pay with a phone.

Still, Apple Pay is our best hope yet of putting overstuffed wallets on a digital diet. Anyone with a new iPhone should give it a try.

To set up Apple Pay on an iPhone 6, tap the plus sign in the included Passbook app. You only have to do this once: The app will prompt you to add one of your existing credit cards by typing in its digits or snapping a photo. Apple Pay works with most existing major credit and debit cards, which you can add to your phone in a matter of minutes. The exceptions are cards from some smaller banks, store-branded cards and corporate cards. Apple is working to fill those holes.

At the store, look for an Apple Pay logo, or more likely the universal contactless payment logo -- a sideways Wi-Fi symbol with a hand approaching it. Once you're rung up, hold your iPhone near the credit-card terminal. You don't have to tap or swipe -- the connection happens over a wireless system called near-field communication, or NFC.

When your iPhone gets close enough, an image of your credit cards appears on its screen, even if the phone is asleep or you're playing "Candy Crush Saga." If you're ready to pay, lightly put your finger on the Touch ID sensor to approve it.

If you want to pick a card other than your designated default card, just tap one, then do the finger scan. Nobody else's finger will work unless you've registered that person's print on your phone. (I tried.)

At most stores, that's it -- you're done. A few might ask you to sign a receipt or punch in your debit card's PIN. In my tests, only one sales clerk got confused, and we figured it out together.

Contrast that with an experience I had earlier this year with the competing PayPal app while heading to lunch with colleagues. PayPal had hired people to stand in front of the restaurant, telling people they'd get $5 off if they paid with its app. But doing that required downloading the app, remembering your PayPal password, finding the restaurant in the app then tapping to pay there. Most of my friends decided they'd rather forgo $5 than pay by phone.

Google Wallet and Softcard, a joint effort of AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon that works on some NFC-equipped Android phones, aren't much better. Both require you to unlock your phone and type a code into an app. That's too many steps to be convenient.

Apple Pay may be simple, but is it safe? A number of security experts I've spoken with call it more secure than carrying a plastic credit card.

That's hard to believe considering that iPhones couldn't keep sensitive celebrity photos away from hackers. But with a regular credit card, your account details are relatively easy to steal. Apple Pay doesn't even store your credit-card number, just a unique code that's a stand-in for your card, hidden on a part of the phone that doesn't get backed up online.

If you lose your iPhone, you don't have to reissue all your credit cards. Instead, you can suspend payments via Apple's Find My iPhone website. A thief shouldn't be able to make purchases with your phone unless they have your thumbprint or, egads, your thumb.

There was one serious hiccup in Apple Pay's first week. Some people with credit cards from

Bank of America got repeat charges. But the bank recognized the problem and fixed it. Its response underscores one of the best safety features of Apple Pay: Because it is tied to a regular credit-card account, you aren't liable for purchases you didn't make.

One of the biggest risks of Apple Pay comes from fraudsters who might enter stolen cards into an iPhone and link it to their own fingerprints. To ward that off, some banks ask you to confirm that you are legit by calling a hotline when adding their card.

The worst part about using Apple Pay has been finding places that accept it. It works at over 220,000 U.S. locations, including national chains like Chevron, Macy's, Nike, Office Depot, Walgreens and Whole Foods. But even there, it may not be at every gas pump or checkout station. That's just a sliver of American retail, and a guy can only eat so much McDonald's and Subway. There isn't even an app -- yet -- that'll tell you which nearby stores take Apple Pay.

Job One for Apple is signing up more merchants. Its system benefits banks and shoppers but doesn't give stores much incentive to install the needed equipment. Apple Pay doesn't offer them cheaper transaction fees or more customer information.

Some stores with the right equipment, including CVS and Rite-Aid, have blocked Apple Pay. A competing service, CurrentC, will launch next year. Both those chains are among its backers. Unfortunately, from early reports, it sounds like CurrentC will be a step backward in usability: You pay by scanning a code inside a smartphone app.

The hardest question for Apple Pay right now is: Why bother? Chances are you have your phone close at hand at checkout. It is a beat quicker to use Apple Pay than to retrieve and swipe a credit card. But just a beat.

I'd consider it more useful if Apple Pay could address my George Costanza-style exploding wallet, so overstuffed with junk it makes me sit at a tilt. To do that, my iPhone would need to store receipts, work on public transportation and unlock the office doors, too.

I'd be more inclined to pay with my phone if it also doubled as one of those loyalty cards I'm always misplacing. Even though it isn't as convenient as Apple Pay, I regularly use the Starbucks app to buy coffee because I get a free cup every so often.

There's a ways to go before we're all paying for things with our phones. But Apple Pay has laid a blueprint for it that makes more sense than any option before.

---

Write to Geoffrey A. Fowler at Geoffrey.Fowler@wsj.com or on Twitter @geoffreyfowler.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141029eaat00008




Tech
SoundCloud Needs to Prove Itself for Partnership With Universal; Universal Music Group Chairman Lucian Grainge said he wants to see more evidence of a sustainable business model

By Douglas MacMillan, Shira Ovide and Danny Yadron 
647 words
28 October 2014
21:00
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XUniversal Music Group Chairman Lucian Grainge said he wants to see more evidence of a sustainable business model before partnering with digital-music startup SoundCloud.

In comments at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference on Tuesday, the record mogul said there is an ¡§opportunity for SoundCloud to create incredible revenue.¡¨ But, Mr. Grainge said, he and SoundCloud would first have to discuss ¡§what the business plan is going to be.¡¨

The interview was one of three sessions at the conference featuring entertainment-industry pioneers, including Mr. Grainge, SoundCloud founder Alexander Ljung and DreamWorks Animation CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg. In separate conversations on Tuesday, the three men discussed emerging business models for creating new forms of revenue for the music and film industries.

They also all managed to dodge or deflect some of the many rumors about partnerships swirling in an industry fast moving toward consolidation.

Mr. Ljung, appearing after Mr. Grainge, wouldn¡¦t comment directly on a potential partnership with Universal. The startup¡¦s first ad offering, called On SoundCloud, was announced earlier this year, without support from any of the major labels.

¡§We won¡¦t have everybody in from day one,¡¨ Mr. Ljung said. ¡§Our intention is to create something that¡¦s valuable for everybody and so valuable that everybody wants to be in. We¡¦re not there yet.¡¨

The pressure on Mr. Ljung to work with the major labels is likely to increase. SoundCloud has 175 million users, but said it lost $29 million last year on revenue of just $14 million.

For his part, Mr. Grainge didn¡¦t contest reports that Universal may team up with Google Inc.¡¦s YouTube for a subscription music service.

¡§We¡¦re very good partners with people where we¡¦re aligned,¡¨ he said. But, he added, ¡§I can¡¦t comment on something that hasn¡¦t been announced.¡¨

The Wall Street Journal has previously reported that Universal is working on a paid music service with YouTube.

The mega label¡¦s latest foray illustrates how the music industry is reaching far and wide to maintain revenue amid declining sales of CDs and downloaded music.

¡§We¡¦re in the experimental phase at the moment,¡¨ he said. ¡§The last two or three years has been about stopping the decline and creating as many platforms and as many services and opportunities to capture money.¡¨

The Journal last week reported that music sales at Apple¡¦s iTunes Store have fallen 13% to 14% worldwide since the start of the year, much steeper than the decline in 2013. Mr. Grainge said that subscription services like Spotify are making up for decline in download sales but not for the decline in record sales.

Mr. Katzenberg¡¦s non-answer came when he was asked to discuss recent discussions with Japanese telecom giant SoftBank. The Journal reported the discussions could have led to a content-distribution partnership, or a SoftBank investment in DreamWorks rather than an outright acquisition.

Mr. Katzenberg declined to comment, calling SoftBank Chief Executive Masayoshi Son ¡§one of the greatest entrepreneurs in the world.¡¨

The growing importance of Chinese consumers, and Chinese tech companies, has been a recurring theme at the WSJD conference this week. Mr. Katzenberg, who was among the first Hollywood executives to cultivate ties with China¡¦s movie industry, said the country was essential to the future of the entertainment business.

¡§To not be there, I think is to miss an extraordinary opportunity,¡¨ Mr. Katzenberg said Tuesday night.

Still, he acknowledged the risks of making movies in China, where DreamWorks and other foreign studios are required to work with local investment partners. ¡§You can¡¦t be there and not play by their rules,¡¨ he said.

Document WSJO000020141029eaat000xe




TSMC Adds LG To Customer Base

By Min-Jeong Lee   
354 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
NPC
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which has boosted its profile in the chip-manufacturing industry by signing deals with Apple Inc., has added LG Electronics Inc. to its list of customers for the high-tech chipsets used in smartphones.

LG Electronics said Friday that it has developed its own microprocessor to power a variation of its flagship G3 smartphone, a first for the South Korean electronics company. Thus far, LG has relied mainly on Qualcomm Inc. for the chips that run its smartphones.

"The chips will be made by TSMC, as LG doesn't have chip factories," a person familiar with the matter said. He said LG and TSMC have been working together for months to develop the new chipset, dubbed Nuclun, but didn't provide further details.

Specifications for the Nuclun aren't quite at top-notch level, but they are similar to the chips that power other premium smartphones, according to LG. For example, one version of Samsung Electronics Co.'s Galaxy Note 4 smartphone comes with a mobile processor similar in structure to the Nuclun, just slightly faster.

With the new push into chip development, LG said it was aiming to further diversify its product strategy against stronger competition. Following a period of losses, LG's mobile unit has been in recovery in recent months thanks to a better-than-expected reception for the company's G3 model, which was launched earlier this year.

But it is too early to tell if LG's internally developed chipsets will bring the company success. Making the right microprocessor has been a challenge even for Samsung, which has a long history of expertise in chip making, analysts say. Samsung-branded mobile processors, called the Exynos series, haven't been a popular choice, even for its Galaxy lineup of smartphones. LG used to have its own chip business but divested itself of the division in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s as a part of a broad restructuring of the country's conglomerates.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141029eaat00002


 South Korea¡¦s Export Weakness Puzzles Economists
WSJ Blogs, 23:51, 28 October 2014, 624 words, By Tom Wright, (English)
South Korea¡¦s exports to China have underperformed Taiwan¡¦s this year, leaving economists scratching their heads.
Both countries exports to China are similar: electronics, steel and chemical goods. Both send around a third of their total ...
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaat000xd



Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,999 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
32
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

Sanofi's Low Blood Sugar

Chris Viehbacher's job just got harder.

The chief executive of Sanofi reportedly wrote to his board asking directors to dismiss rumors that he could be replaced as boss of the French drug maker. Now, a sudden surge in price competition in the U.S. that casts a pall over the company's growth prospects isn't helping his cause.

Indeed, Sanofi's shares dropped 11% after it bemoaned the mounting pressure on its prized diabetes business. And, judging by the experience of U.K. peer GlaxoSmithKline, this could be a lasting drag.

It isn't clear why Sanofi's diabetes business, which contributes about one-fifth of sales, suddenly slowed. It posted 8% sales growth in the third quarter after a healthy 15% rise in the first half.

More important, Sanofi pointed to "aggressive discounting" by rivals in the U.S. as reason to think sales would be flat in 2015 compared with this year.

In what is effectively a two-player market, that is a jibe at Denmark's Novo Nordisk. Sanofi's outlook implies a price decline of 10% to 15% next year. But, notes Barclays, if price competition is heating up it isn't showing in prescriptions: the pair's market shares are currently stable.

This tale, in some ways, mirrors the experience of Glaxo. Sales of its respiratory drug Advair, which accounted for 20% of sales last year, have been shrinking. U.S. primary-care providers have been demanding higher rebates on products, playing off different drug makers against one another. Those woes have weighed on Glaxo, which also has struggled to convince investors it can replace Advair's lost sales with new respiratory products.

Sanofi should be in a stronger position. It operates in an effective duopoly. The French company pushed through three double-digit price increases on insulin Lantus last year, boosting sales, and there is still volume growth in the U.S. market.

The apparent pickup in tit-for-tat discounting is alarming, though. Novo Nordisk and Sanofi are likely watching each other's next launch. Novo Nordisk's next-generation insulin won't hit the U.S. before 2016. But if the Danish company is cutting prices, that could be an attempt to derail Sanofi's launch of its new insulin, Toujeo, expected next year.

Alternatively, Sanofi may have been overly eager to shore up Lantus's position with health-care providers. That could convince investors it can switch patients to its new product, with the threat of a biosimilar version of Lantus from Eli Lilly looming.

Sanofi, like Glaxo, has been trading at a discount to the European pharmaceuticals sector. That widened Tuesday to about 15%. Given Glaxo's ongoing battle to defend its lead in the U.S. respiratory business, such caution is warranted until more is known about Sanofi's outlook in diabetes.

Meanwhile, this latest upset is hardly likely to quiet chatter about Mr. Viehbacher's position.

-- Helen Thomas

StanChart Hit

By Past Growth

Standard Chartered's growth strategy is coming home to roost.

Asia had been the growth engine of the U.K.-listed bank, which notched up double-digit annual profit increases frequently in the past decade. However, on Tuesday the same region was behind the bank's second profit warning this year, sending shares plunging 8.8% to a five-year low.

Impairment charges due to bad loans, made mostly in emerging markets, rose 86% in the third quarter and are up by 36% for the first nine months of this year. In its business-banking and financial-markets division alone, Standard Chartered's main source of growth, impairments could rise by 60% this year, says Jefferies.

This sets off a potential domino effect: As well as taking a bite out of earnings, bad credit can mean higher risk weightings in its loan book, putting further pressure on capital ratios. As loans deteriorate, Standard Chartered has had to reduce risk in its portfolio. But that has resulted in a drop in lending -- which in turn lowers future revenue growth. At the end of the third quarter, its loans to customers had fallen by 3% compared with three months before.

Standard Chartered has been hit by a perfect storm of macro events, with lower-than-expected growth in emerging markets, declining commodity prices and a strengthening dollar with the specter of rising rates.

But the bank is also suffering from idiosyncratic problems that hark back to its growth strategy of chasing revenue ahead of controlling risk. Compared with HSBC, another U.K. bank with roots in emerging markets, Standard Chartered has suffered a higher rate of loan impairments so far this year. The former hasn't reported third-quarter results, but in the first half of 2014, HSBC's loan impairments fell 40% year on year.

Meanwhile, Standard Chartered's total loan-loss reserves compared with nonperforming loans in business banking dropped to 46% in 2013 from 91% in 2007, notes Jefferies.

Standard Chartered is trading at 8.3 times 2015 earnings, compared with HSBC at about 10 times. But as Standard Chartered battles its impairment problems, it also risks eating into tomorrow's earnings growth. Investors still risk getting egg on their face.

-- Thao Hua

China Takes Nuclear-Energy Risk

Nuclear energy: It's risky stuff. Hence, there is often a heavy degree of government control over it -- which makes it a doubly risky investment proposition.

Especially when that government is China's.

A number of Chinese state-owned nuclear companies are going public these days. CGN Power, the country's largest with 9.4 gigawatts of operating capacity, will likely offer $3 billion of new shares in Hong Kong next month, reports The Wall Street Journal.

A small affiliate, CGN Meiya Power, raised $262 million in Hong Kong last month and has seen its shares rise by 20% since. Meanwhile, another top operator, China National Nuclear Power, also plans an initial public offering.

Once listed, these will be among a handful of stocks globally, including the likes of Exelon of the U.S. and EDF of France, offering high or pure exposure to nuclear energy.

And while much of the rest of the world is ambivalent about or hostile to nuclear energy, Beijing has big expansion plans. The Chinese government suspended new project approvals after Japan's Fukushima accident in March 2011.

But the need to diversify away from smog-causing coal has put its nuclear ambitions back on track. China now targets nearly tripling the nuclear capacity that is up and running to 58 gigawatts by 2020. The IPOs will help fund that ambition.

The state's involvement can cut both ways, though. CGN sells most of its output to state-run electricity grids at regulated tariffs. For power plants that began operating before 2013, these tariffs are tailored to yield a "reasonable" profit, according to CGN's prospectus. Yet its net profit has fallen since 2011 because of either surging costs or weakening sales.

For newer plants, the tariff is supposed to be fixed -- except when it isn't. In a bid to avoid competition, these plants are required to cut tariffs if neighboring coal-fired power is cheaper. That is quite likely as coal prices spiral downward.

Energy prices are heavily regulated precisely because consumers are rather attached to light and heat. That makes them subject to political, as well as economic, forces.

In France, for example, shares in state-run EDF tanked 14% in June when the government scrapped a planned tariff increase. There is even more reason to worry in China since governments could keep down power prices as a stimulus to troubled heavy industries.

Growth prospects are high, which is likely one reason that CGN already trades at 10.9 times 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That is far higher than EDF's 4.8 times or Exelon's 6.6 times.

Double-digit multiples are no doubt tempting for IPO bankers but look too much for a large nuclear generator carrying this much political risk. The problem is, CGN's balance sheet means it needs a high multiple, or fast growth in profits, to make its IPO math work.

Net debt as of this March is a hefty 5.1 times 2013 Ebitda, and still high at four times even if related-party loans are excluded. And less than 10% of the IPO proceeds are currently earmarked for paying off borrowings. As if nuclear power wasn't risky enough.

-- Abheek Bhattacharya

Inflation

Shapes

Sweden's

Rate Path

The Riksbank's interest-rate journey has gone full circle. The decisions of the Swedish central bank may yet have wider resonance.

The Riksbank reduced its main policy rate Tuesday to zero from 0.25% and indicated there would be no increases before mid-2016. That marks the culmination of a grand reversal: between June 2010 and July 2011, the Riksbank had raised rates by 1.75 percentage points to 2%. But by December 2011 it was cutting them again. Rates are now lower than in the wake of the global financial crisis.

As elsewhere in developed markets, like the U.S. and U.K., growth isn't the problem. Sweden bounced back swiftly from 2008's turmoil, and the Riksbank forecasts growth of 1.9% in 2014, 2.7% in 2015 and 3.3% in 2016. Unemployment has been falling and is expected to fall further.

But inflation is nowhere to be seen. September's reading came in at minus 0.4%; in 2013, average inflation was just below zero. In part this is due to lower food and energy prices, the effects of which are being felt widely. But even services inflation stood at just 0.5% in September, UBS notes. The Riksbank is way off its target of 2% for headline inflation.

The problem for the Riksbank in cutting rates lies in the risk to financial stability. Swedish house prices have risen steeply and households are heavily indebted. So-called macroprudential policy, which aims to reduce financial stability risks, has so far had little effect on debt, which stands at 170% of household disposable income.

Sweden's challenges are playing out elsewhere, albeit less urgently. In both the U.S. and U.K., there is a similar mix of concerns about the risks ultraloose policy poses to financial stability. But inflation is increasingly in focus, as it is falling quickly, albeit still comfortably in positive territory. If that is mostly down to lower food and energy prices, it is effectively a tax cut for consumers, and a boon for the economy. But if inflation moves far away from target, potentially affecting expectations, it is a big concern for central banks.

The Riksbank's reversal may make those already hesitant about raising rates elsewhere a little more so. The chance of rates staying lower for even longer is slowly rising.

-- Richard Barley

Overheard

Apple may or may not strike a partnership with Alibaba, but the iPhone maker has strong reasons for wanting to find new ways to grow its business in China.

During onstage interviews at the WSJD Live conference Monday, Apple CEO Tim Cook and Alibaba CEO Jack Ma threw out hints they would like to work together, possibly on something involving Alibaba's online payment service called Alipay. Theoretically, the service could work with Apple's Touch ID function embedded on the newest iPhones. But many questions remain, especially given Apple's drive to grow its own payment service.

What is clear is that the Chinese market grows more important for Apple with each passing year. Its annual securities filing, also out Monday, showed Greater China to be the fastest-growing of the company's geographic segments.

Apple may not always play well with others. But with its eyes on China, it could be more motivated to make new friends.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document WSJE000020141029eaat0000j




REFILE-Former Google executive gets into payment terminals

408 words
28 October 2014
20:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(Changes dateline and reporting credit line)               

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif., Oct 28 (Reuters) - The former head of Google Inc's mobile wallet is drawing on the lessons of that failed initiative in his latest payments startup, Poynt.               

The startup founded by Osama Bedier, also a former PayPal executive, is launching on Wednesday a point-of-sale device that competes with the required payment terminals now used by restaurants, retailers and other small businesses throughout the United States.               

The launch comes a year before U.S. merchants will have to meet a deadline to adopt "EMV" chip technology that would make credit cards more secure.               

Unlike older systems that will have to be expanded or replaced over time to support new innovations such as contactless mobile payments, Poynt says its terminal comes with a full range of capabilities at the same price.               

Its terminal, which will be disseminated to merchants by banks, can accept a variety of credit cards, including more secure chip-and-pin credit cards and Apple Pay, the mobile payments service Apple Inc launched last week. It also comes with wireless capability.               

"No one is tackling the terminal itself," Bedier said in an interview. "A phone is an essential device for the consumer. The terminal is required device for the merchant."               

The $299 device will be shipped to merchants in the first quarter, but developers can get an early version of the device for $499 in the fourth quarter.               

Poynt does not compete with the likes of Square and Stripe, which focus on other aspects of the payments, said Bedier, who left Google last year to work on Poynt full time.               

The startup has spent the last 18 months getting the necessary authorization to function as a payments terminal. Poynt is ironing out deals with two major banks, which will then disseminate the terminal to merchants.               

Bedier hopes to get five banks signed on by the end of next year.               

The decision to compete with point-of-sale terminal makers like Verifone Systems Inc in an often-overlooked area of the complex payments infrastructure stems from the hard lessons from Bedier's time at PayPal and Google.               

Both companies focused on upending long-held habits among consumers and retailers. Poynt is focused on improving a device that every retailer must have, at a time merchants are already planning to overhaul their terminals.               

Released: 2014-10-29T02:18:28.000Z

Document LBA0000020141029eaat00134




Technology
Renren CEO Seeks Sale Of Some Noncore Units

By Yun-Hee Kim and Deborah Kan   
672 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
18
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. -- Chinese social-network company Renren Inc. is planning to sell some noncore businesses as it works to sustain profits and is considering potential investments in the U.S. and Hong Kong, its chief executive said.

"The business in the current form -- it's difficult to make money. We are transforming fundamentally to change how we do business," Joe Chen, also the company's founder and chairman, said in an interview Monday on the sidelines of the WSJD Live global technology conference.

Renren was once described as the Facebook of China when it first gained prominence as a platform resembling the social-media service offered by Facebook Inc., which is blocked in that country. Founded in 2005, the New York Stock Exchange-listed, Beijing-based company has since diversified into services including online games, online video and e-commerce, as well as providing group buying and professional social-networking services similar to LinkedIn.

Despite having 214 million monthly active users on its platform at the end of June, Renren hasn't been steadily profitable since its inception in 2005, Mr. Chen said. In the second quarter it reported earnings of $31.3 million, including an $86 million gain from short-term investments, on revenue of $25 million. It reported a $30.4 million loss from operations during the quarter.

The third quarter could be tougher. It estimates revenue declined to between $19 million and $21 million during the period. Mr. Chen blamed rising competition from giants like Tencent Holdings Ltd., the Chinese company behind the popular mobile-messaging app WeChat, which has more than 438 million monthly active users.

"The social-media landscape is increasingly being dominated by Tencent. Operationally, we aren't doing so well because there are dominant players," he said.

Mr. Chen wouldn't say which businesses the company wants to divest next after Renren sold its e-commerce operations to Baidu Inc. in August last year. The company is also open to joint ventures with bigger technology companies in areas outside of social networking, which is its core business.

But he said more strategic investments are likely because Renren wants to invest in innovative startups that could further the company's growth. The company is considering an investment in a Hong Kong-based startup, though Mr. Chen declined to give further details. The company has about $800 million set aside for strategic investments, he said.

"We don't want to be too complacent -- but not too aggressive -- and we're on the lookout for the best deals," he said.

Renren has already made some investments in the U.S. as part of its plans to look beyond China for opportunities. For example, about a half year ago, the company invested $1 million in Yik Yak, an Atlanta-based social-media app available on phones running Google Inc.'s Android and Apple Inc's iOS mobile-operating systems. In May, Renren led a $31 million investment in Fundrise, a Washington, D.C., real-estate crowdfunding platform. It is also the largest shareholder in Social Finance Inc., a startup that offers inexpensive student loans.

Mr. Chen said that several years ago, the company looked at potentially investing in the popular messaging app Snapchat, which has garnered interest from tech giants including Yahoo Inc., China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Facebook.

Tencent ended up buying a stake in Snapchat for an undisclosed amount last year. People familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal in recent weeks that Yahoo has committed an investment in Snapchat at a $10 billion valuation.

Two areas where Renren is looking to expand include student financing -- offering loans to students in mainland China for a fee -- as well as online education.

"These are different ways to monetize. We are just starting in this area but we're going after these markets that are being ignored," Mr. Chen said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141028eaat00011




Payments Dream Team In the Making in China?

By Juro Osawa   
625 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

A possible alliance in electronic payments between two of the tech world's hottest companies -- Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Apple Inc. -- could open doors for both in China, the world's biggest e-commerce market.

But analysts and payment experts say such an alliance, which was suggested Monday by Alibaba Executive Chairman Jack Ma during an interview at the WSJD Live global technology conference, would face a host of technical and possibly regulatory hurdles.

Mr. Ma said that Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that last month raised $25 billion in the world's biggest-ever initial public offering, is interested in partnering with iPhone maker Apple in payments. Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the same conference that he is going to meet with Mr. Ma to discuss partnerships, without specifying what kind.

Any such partnership could be a formidable force in China, where Alibaba controls roughly 80% of the country's online shopping market, valued at around $302 billion last year, according to the Chinese government.

Alibaba's payment affiliate, Alipay, already handles a bulk of those online transactions, as well as a small share of in-store purchases. It is trying to expand further into payments at brick-and-mortar venues -- from shops to restaurants, taxis and theaters. Analysts say it could make headway with a tie-up that allows iPhone users to pay for goods from Alipay accounts with a tap of their handsets.

Apple recently launched its own payment system, called Apple Pay. Working with Alipay in China could give the U.S. company access to Alipay's powerful transactions-settling system, which is already used by hundreds of millions of consumers and businesses. It would also let Apple take advantage of Alipay's existing agreements with more than 200 Chinese financial institutions, which allow users to transfer money from their bank accounts to Alipay accounts.

Apple Pay, a feature of the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, uses a smart-chip technology that lets users pay by bringing their phones near an electronic reader, but it isn't yet available in China.

A partnership with Apple would allow Alibaba to get access to information on payments made in brick-and-mortar stores through Apple Pay, analysts say.

"If Alipay wants to collect more data on offline payments from high-end customers, working with Apple would make sense," said Forrester Research analyst Bryan Wang, noting that iPhone owners in China tend to be affluent.

For payments at stores, Alipay currently uses QR codes -- complex patterns that can be scanned by smartphone cameras -- as well as a technology that beams payment information through sound waves. But machines that work with QR codes and sound-wave technology aren't widely available at large retail stores in China.

An alliance between Apple and Alibaba would encounter challenges, including how China's financial regulators might respond.

Alipay's expansion into offline payments as well as other financial services such as money-market funds has already met calls from traditional state-run Chinese banks for tighter regulation.

Apple has options for payment partners in China other than Alipay. One possibility would be an alliance with China UnionPay Co., a state-run credit card and debit-card monopoly that already has card readers across China that are compatible with the payment chips in Apple's new iPhones.

"For the short term, a deal with UnionPay would make sense [for Apple], whereas any alliance with Alipay could be more for future developments in the long run," said Chris Harvey, global leader of financial services at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.

---

Rolfe Winkler contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141028eaat0000x




Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,104 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
32
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Dicey Investment In Chinese Nuclear

Nuclear energy: It's risky stuff. Hence, there is often a heavy degree of government control over it -- which makes it a doubly risky investment proposition.

Especially when that government is China's.

A number of Chinese state-owned nuclear companies are going public these days. CGN Power, the country's largest with 9.4 gigawatts of operating capacity, will likely offer $3 billion of new shares in Hong Kong next month, reports The Wall Street Journal.

A small affiliate, CGN Meiya Power, raised $262 million in Hong Kong last month and has seen its shares rise by 20% since. Meanwhile, another top operator, China National Nuclear Power, also plans an initial public offering.

Once listed, these will be among a handful of stocks globally, including the likes of Exelon of the U.S. and EDF of France, offering high or pure exposure to nuclear energy.

And while much of the rest of the world is ambivalent about or hostile to nuclear energy, Beijing has big expansion plans. The Chinese government suspended new project approvals after Japan's Fukushima accident in March 2011.

But the need to diversify away from smog-causing coal has put its nuclear ambitions back on track. China now targets nearly tripling the nuclear capacity that is up and running to 58 gigawatts by 2020. The IPOs will help fund that ambition.

The state's involvement can cut both ways, though. CGN sells most of its output to state-run electricity grids at regulated tariffs. For power plants that began operating before 2013, these tariffs are tailored to yield a "reasonable" profit, according to CGN's prospectus. Yet its net profit has fallen since 2011 because of either surging costs or weakening sales.

For newer plants, the tariff is supposed to be fixed -- except when it isn't. In a bid to avoid competition, these plants are required to cut tariffs if neighboring coal-fired power is cheaper. That is quite likely as coal prices spiral downward.

Energy prices are heavily regulated precisely because consumers are rather attached to light and heat. That makes them subject to political, as well as economic, forces.

In France, for example, shares in state-run EDF tanked 14% in June when the government scrapped a planned tariff increase. There is even more reason to worry in China, because governments could keep down power prices as a stimulus to troubled heavy industries.

Growth prospects are high, which is likely one reason that CGN already trades at 10.9 times 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That is far higher than EDF's 4.8 times or Exelon's 6.6 times.

Double-digit multiples are no doubt tempting for IPO bankers but look too much for a large nuclear generator carrying this much political risk. The problem is, CGN's balance sheet means it needs a high multiple, or fast growth in profit, to make its IPO math work.

Net debt as of this March is a hefty 5.1 times 2013 Ebitda, and still high at four times even if related-party loans are excluded. And less than 10% of the IPO proceeds are earmarked for paying off borrowings. As if nuclear power wasn't risky enough.

-- Abheek Bhattacharya

StanChart Hit by Ghosts of Growth Past

Standard Chartered's growth strategy is coming home to roost.

Asia had been the growth engine of the U.K.-listed bank, which notched up double-digit annual profit increases frequently in the past decade. However, on Tuesday the same region was behind the bank's second profit warning this year, sending its shares plunging 8.8% to a five-year low.

Impairment charges due to bad loans, made mostly in emerging markets, rose 86% in the third quarter and are up by 36% for the first nine months of this year. In its business-banking and financial-markets division alone, Standard Chartered's main source of growth, impairments could rise by 60% this year, says Jefferies.

This sets off a potential domino effect: As well as taking a bite out of earnings, bad credit can mean higher risk weightings in its loan book, putting further pressure on capital ratios. As loans deteriorate, Standard Chartered has had to reduce risk in its portfolio. But that has resulted in a drop in lending -- which in turn lowers future revenue growth. At the end of the third quarter, its loans to customers had fallen 3% compared with three months before.

Standard Chartered has been hit by a perfect storm of macro events, with lower-than-expected growth in emerging markets, declining commodity prices and a strengthening dollar with the specter of rising rates.

But the bank is also suffering from idiosyncratic problems that hark back to its growth strategy of chasing revenue ahead of controlling risk. Compared with HSBC, another U.K. bank with roots in emerging markets, Standard Chartered has suffered a higher rate of loan impairments so far this year. The former hasn't reported third-quarter results, but in the first half of 2014, HSBC's loan impairments fell 40% year on year.

Meanwhile, Standard Chartered's total loan-loss reserves compared with nonperforming loans in business banking dropped to 46% in 2013 from 91% in 2007, notes Jefferies.

Standard Chartered is trading at 8.3 times 2015 earnings, compared with HSBC at about 10 times. But as Standard Chartered battles its impairment problems, it also risks eating into tomorrow's earnings growth. Investors still risk getting egg on their faces.

-- Thao Hua

Overheard

James Dimon won't like this.

Back in 2011, J.P. Morgan Chase and its chief relinquished the title of biggest U.S. bank by market value to Wells Fargo. Now comes a further indignity: J.P. Morgan's market value late last week was overtaken by Facebook's. This happened as the tech giant, which reports results Tuesday, issued new shares to fund its purchase of WhatsApp. Markets didn't ding Facebook for the dilution, so its value rose. It was worth $224 billion Monday versus about $221 billion for J.P. Morgan.

Facebook joins the ranks of tech stalwarts such as Apple, Google and Microsoft, all with market values bigger than J.P. Morgan's. Tech's dominance is really clear when you look at Apple: J.P. Morgan and Wells have a combined market value equal to only three-quarters that of the iPhone maker. No wonder graduates increasingly choose Silicon Valley over Wall Street these days.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141028eaat0000v




LG-Samsung Rivalry Intensifies

By Min-Jeong Lee   
979 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
19
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Samsung Electronics Co. has been battling Apple Inc. in the cutthroat global smartphone market, but in its own backyard, the South Korean technology giant has been fighting off a half-century-old rival, LG Electronics Inc.

While it isn't yet a big material threat like low-cost Chinese makers, LG has been nibbling at Samsung's smartphone market share and is becoming a bigger player in a number of product categories, including TVs and home appliances, and gaining technological edge in key components like displays. The two keep very close tabs each other's product launch plans, according to people familiar with the matter.

To be sure, LG's gains are coming in Samsung's massive shadow. Samsung's revenue of 229 trillion won ($218 billion) for 2013 is nearly four times bigger than LG's 58 trillion won revenue for the same period, and Samsung's 30.5 trillion won net profit dwarfs LG's 223 billion won. In the second quarter, Samsung had a 25.2% share of the global smartphone market, while LG had 4.9%, according to researcher Strategy Analytics. Samsung remains a dominant force in terms of shipments for TVs and memory chips.

But when Samsung released its third-quarter earnings estimates earlier this month, its struggles in the smartphone market became ever more apparent. Samsung said its operating profit in the third quarter more than halved from a year earlier, largely due to weakness in its smartphone business. Its TV and display unit isn't expected to have done any better.

LG, which reports earnings on Wednesday, is expected to see its operating profit as much as double, according to analysts, thanks to a better-than-expected reception of the G3 smartphone it launched in May. In South Korea, LG grabbed a 27% handset market share in the third quarter, its highest in years, and up from just 18% a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research. During the same period, Samsung's share slipped to 60% from 66%.

LG's display-making affiliate, LG Display Co., is poised to top its bigger rival Samsung Display Co. in both revenue and profit in the third quarter on solid sales of high-end screens used in Apple's iPhones as well as LG's flagship G series phones. Meanwhile, LG Display's growing expertise in large-size, next-generation displays has allowed LG Electronics to beat Samsung in the launch of a series of curved-screen and super-thin TV sets.

Still, in a sign that Samsung is becoming increasingly conscious of its much-smaller hometown rival, the company took a page from LG's playbook by introducing a rear-button function with its latest Galaxy Note 4 smartphone, which LG first introduced in its G2 smartphone last year.

LG didn't miss out on the rare opportunity to mock its bigger rival by tweeting through one of its official accounts: "Thank you 4 taking Note." Samsung declined to comment on the tweet.

For decades, the crosstown rivals have taken pride in pioneering technologies used in everything from TVs and refrigerators to washing machines and mobile devices. They compete in nearly identical global markets and product categories.

Their rivalry culminated in a bitter fight in September when LG executives entered an electronics shop in Berlin and allegedly broke the doors of multiple high-end Samsung washing machines. Samsung swiftly filed a formal complaint with the Supreme Prosecutors' Office, requesting an investigation. LG denied allegations of ill intent, saying the executives were casually "checking out" the doors when they unexpectedly broke. LG also took the occasion to highlight that it outsells Samsung in washing machines, one of the few categories where LG tops Samsung.

The incident is under investigation by the South Korean authorities. The prosecutors' office declined to comment on ongoing probes.

LG -- which began in 1958 as a company called Gold Star, a maker of radios -- has a history of falling behind Samsung in technological prowess. Its revenue was almost on par with that of Samsung, which was established in 1969, as a maker of black-and-white TVs, until the mid-1980s, when Samsung made a lucrative push into computers and semiconductors.

The gap widened after the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, when the government forced LG to divest its chip business as a part of a broad restructuring of the conglomerates known as chaebols. That chip business became SK Hynix Inc., the world's second-largest memory chip maker after Samsung.

When word was circulating last year that LG Electronics would introduce an "industry first" curved-screen smartphone in the fourth quarter, Samsung surprised the market at a media event in September 2013 with news of its own curved-screen phone. Samsung launched its Galaxy Round smartphone the following month exclusively in South Korea.

LG launched its LG G Flex in November, and rolled it out in global markets. Sales figures haven't been disclosed for either of the curved-screen phones.

Following LG's successful G3 phone launch this year, Samsung responded in September with a new phablet, dubbed the Galaxy Note Edge, with a screen that wraps over one edge to display messages.

"It comes down to what kind of benefits our product can provide to customers, because we can't earn money without customer satisfaction," said Chris Yie, vice president for marketing at LG's mobile unit. Mr. Yie said LG is preparing to counter Samsung's Galaxy Note Edge, without going into specific details.

The two companies appear to have selected their next battleground: A team of LG Display engineers is working to bring flexible screens that can fold in half for smartphones, while Samsung Display aims to start production at its flexible-display production line early next year.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document AWSJ000020141028eaat0000q




Markets
Apple Hearts China -- Overheard

196 words
28 October 2014
10:12
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Apple may or may not strike a partnership with Alibaba, but the iPhone maker has strong reasons for wanting to find new ways to grow its business in China.

During onstage interviews at the WSJD Live conference Monday, Apple CEO Tim Cook and Alibaba CEO Jack Ma threw out hints they would like to work together, possibly on something involving Alibaba¡¦s online payment service called Alipay. Theoretically, the service could work with Apple¡¦s Touch ID function embedded on the newest iPhones. But many questions remain, especially given Apple¡¦s drive to grow its own payment service.

What is clear is that the Chinese market grows more important for Apple with each passing year. Its annual securities filing, also out Monday, showed Greater China to be the fastest-growing of the company¡¦s geographic segments¡Xand the only one that grew its share of Apple¡¦s overall revenue in the 2014 fiscal year. China even grew sales of the iPad, which saw a decline in other markets.

Apple may not always play well with others. But with its eyes on China, it could be more motivated to make new friends.

Document WSJO000020141028eaas005v9




Tech
Axelle Lemaire: Big U.S. Tech Companies Need to ¡¥Adapt¡¦; France¡¦s Digital Minister Says Europe Is Looking at Ways to Rein In ¡¥Les GAFAs¡¦; It¡¦s a ¡¥Tug of War,¡¦ Microsoft General Counsel Says

By Sam Schechner 
675 words
28 October 2014
08:42
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. ¡V European governments are discussing how to update regulations for global tech titans as they grapple with the growing market share of a cadre of U.S.-based firms, said Axelle Lemaire, the French deputy minister for digital affairs.

During a discussion with Microsoft Corp. General Counsel Brad Smith at the WSJD Live global technology conference, Ms. Lemaire said France is exploring with Germany and other governments a variety of ways to rein in the market power of ¡§les GAFAs¡¨ ¡V a popular French acronym that refers to Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon.

¡§If they really want to be international players, they have to adapt a little bit more,¡¨ said Ms. Lemaire.

The call for updated European rules is the latest from governments wary of a set of American tech superpowers, and worried that European firms are falling behind on their home turf. European officials in Brussels and other capitals have been putting unprecedented pressure on big tech firms such as Google Inc. and Apple Inc. over questions ranging from competition and privacy to taxes.

Earlier this month, Ms. Lemaire met with her counterparts in Berlin to discuss a joint position paper to be sent to other European governments in coming weeks. According to a person familiar with the matter, the position will include potential updates to competition regulations in Europe, in an effort to restore what the person called a ¡§level playing field.¡¨

Ms. Lemaire said traditional antitrust regulations are difficult to apply to companies such as Google, which offer content but don¡¦t operate traditional networks. ¡§They are not monopolies in the sense that their behavior doesn¡¦t result in an increase in prices,¡¨ she said.

Ms. Lemaire on Tuesday didn¡¦t give specifics on how France proposes to fix that problem, but said for instance that she would like Google ¡V which has a dominant share of Europe¡¦s web-search market -- to be more transparent about how its search algorithm works.

¡§We¡¦re trying to think to ways to ensure that the current European legislation can be respected,¡¨ said Ms. Lemaire. ¡§It is to ensure to the respect of the free share of the market and fair share of the burden of taxation.¡¨

¡§There is a tug of war going on,¡¨ responded Microsoft¡¦s Mr. Smith, adding that ¡§Like most tugs of war, I think people on each side probably need to learn more about where the other side is coming from.¡¨

One major source of tension were the revelations in 2013 of widespread spying by the U.S. National Security Agency, targeting both European citizens and governments. Those revelations have given new momentum to European Union politicians looking to tighten the bloc¡¦s privacy rules, and have hurt American companies¡¦ standing in Europe.

¡§It is something that has impacted our entire industry and we certainly have been impacted,¡¨ Mr. Smith said Tuesday.

Microsoft has taken a big role in pushing back against government surveillance requests, appealing for instance a U.S. court order to turn over customer email stored in a data center in Ireland. Mr. Smith rejected the suggestion that it might be a publicity stunt, arguing that letting the U.S. access data in another country could set a dangerous precedent.

¡§What is going to happen when we have 127 governments all doing this?¡¨ Mr. Smith asked.

Ms. Lemaire said European politicians are wary of imposing too many regulations, because because of what she said are American perceptions of hyper regulation in Europe. But she added that she believes some new rules, such as data protection rules, could help make Europe a more attractive place to do business, by offering greater protection for customers and companies.

¡§It would be too easy to see Europe as the over regulator and the U.S. as the free marketplace,¡¨ Ms. Lemaire said.

Document WSJO000020141028eaas005ha


 Facebook Tumbles After Warning of Higher Costs to Come
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 687 words, (English)
Summary: Facebook missed profit expectations for the first time in two years. WSJ's Reed Albergotti and Scott Austin discuss the social network's third quarter earnings report. (Photo: Getty Images)
Document MMSAJB0020141029eaas000gp



Tech
Xiaomi Defends Its Smartphone Business Model; Markets Chosen to Fit Low-Cost Approach, Hugo Barra Says

By Daisuke Wakabayashi 
678 words
28 October 2014
09:32
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. said its international expansion plans are dictated by choosing markets where its low-cost business model will work well and not by avoiding areas of potential intellectual-property-litigation risk sweeping across the smartphone industry.

Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference, Hugo Barra, Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, said it looks for markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Those markets, Mr. Barra said, are where Xiaomi¡¦s model of selling smartphones at near cost works especially well.

Xiaomi passed Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China in the second quarter, according to Canalys, a research firm. It has moved into India, Indonesia and other parts of Asia. Mr. Barra said the company is looking at a move into Brazil and Mexico next.

Xiaomi has taken the Chinese smartphone market by storm. It offers its phones at rock-bottom prices, often selling out new models online in minutes. It makes money by charging for services and accessories that accompany the phones. It also relies on a legion of loyal fans to test new features and drum up enthusiasm for the company.

But for all of Xiaomi¡¦s successes, rivals and critics have said the company would face patent infringements if it expanded to the U.S. or Europe because it doesn¡¦t have enough intellectual property to strike cross-licensing patent deals with other smartphone manufacturers.

¡§Our situation when it comes to patents is the same as everyone else,¡¨ said Mr. Barra, noting that his company files for a significant number of patents in China and strikes licensing deals abroad. Litigation risk ¡§is not a determining factor¡¨ in deciding the best markets for Xiaomi¡¦s international expansion, he said.

The issue came to prominence earlier this month when Jony Ive, Apple¡¦s senior vice president of design, was asked about Xiaomi and how some smartphone designs seem to resemble the iPhone. Without mentioning Xiaomi specifically, the usually soft-spoken Mr. Ive said it was ¡§theft¡¨ and called it ¡§lazy.¡¨

Mr. Barra said there is no such thing as a completely unique design language in the smartphone industry, noting that Apple¡¦s iPhone 6 takes a chapter from designs by Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. He says that what Apple does is no different than what Xiaomi does. ¡§This idea of building upon great ideas and putting a twist on it is what we do,¡¨ he said.

An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.

Xiaomi¡¦s smartphones run on a version of Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system. Xiaomi is sometimes called ¡§the Apple of China¡¨ for the excitement it generates among consumers. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in the past year and it is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year.

The company poses a threat to other smartphone manufacturers because of its willingness to accept low margins on hardware to make money elsewhere. For example, Xiaomi¡¦s popular Redmi phone is about a quarter of the price of the iPhone 6, which sells for more than $800 in China.

¡§We fundamentally believe that innovation is not a luxury item. Innovation is for everyone,¡¨ said Mr. Barra. ¡§We fundamentally believe that when it costs you $200 to make something, you shouldn¡¦t sell it for $600.¡¨

Mr. Barra reiterated that the company has been moving data belonging to international users to servers outside China¡Xin Singapore and North America¡Xin an effort to assuage users¡¦ concerns about privacy. He said the decision to migrate servers outside of China was driven partially by a desire to improve performance by reducing network outages and latency, but he said users like to have data close.

¡§It makes people feel better that they have data next to them,¡¨ Mr. Barra said.

¡§Chinese companies are held to a higher standard than other companies out there.¡¨

Document WSJO000020141028eaas005pl


 Waze Wants to Help You Beat the Morning Rush
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 781 words, (English)
Summary: Waze CEO Noam Bardin speaks to WSJ's Deborah Kan about how crowd-sourced traffic works and how his company profits from the platform.
Document MMSAJB0020141029eaas000dy

 Whisper CEO Addresses Privacy Breach Accusations
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 452 words, (English)
Summary: Whisper CEO Michael Heyward addresses the Guardian articles accusing his company's app of privacy breaches.
The guardian has posted a series of articles raid. There's a long list of what they've claims among many things kind of the ...
Document MMSAJB0020141029eaas000dx

 Is America's View of Europe Skewed?
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 935 words, (English)
Summary: WSJ reporter Rofle Winkler speaks with France's Deputy Minister for Digital Affairs Axelle Lemaire and Brad Smith, EVP and General Counsel for Microsoft, about how American and European views of the tech sector differ at the WSJD ...
Document MMSAJB0020141029eaas0008d

 Next Up at LG: Post-It TVs, Foldable Smartphones And More
WSJ Blogs, 15:44, 28 October 2014, 652 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
As Apple and Samsung Electronics busy themselves in introducing new mobile devices to show off their cool, display makers are bent over developing screens that will be used in next-generation devices.
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaas0005l



Page One
Record Labels, Retailers Can¡¦t Agree on Which Day of the Week to Release New Music; Labels¡¦ Friday Push Hits Wrong Note With Retailers

By Hannah Karp 
1,180 words
28 October 2014
13:53
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Around the world, new music is released nearly eight days a week.

In the U.S., new tunes come out on Tuesdays, never mind that Britain does it on Mondays and Japan on Wednesdays.

But now, hoping to stem piracy and boost long-sagging sales, the world¡¦s biggest recording companies want retailers in various nations to stop marching to the beat of their own drums and start issuing new tunes on the same day: Friday.

¡§Do you ever hear people say, ¡¥Thank God it¡¦s Tuesday¡¦?¡¨ asked Frances Moore, chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the record labels¡¦ trade group in London, which has led the movement.

But many U.S. retailers, who say they weren¡¦t consulted about the plan, are outraged. Among other concerns, they worry that a Friday release day will create supply problems and hurt midweek business without necessarily boosting it over the weekend.

¡§Global release day? Great idea. Friday? A really crazy, poor idea,¡¨ said Mike Fratt, general manager and buyer at Homer¡¦s Music in Omaha, Neb., adding that he didn¡¦t appreciate the ¡§weird, kind of creepy, behind-the-scenes decision¡¨ being ¡§crammed down our throats.¡¨

¡§When did [the IFPI] become the government?¡¨ he added.

Ms. Moore said the IFPI is ¡§working through concerns¡¨ but added that ¡§someone¡¦s got to change.¡¨

In the pre-Internet era of CDs, the lack of global coordination didn¡¦t matter much. But when Apple Inc. opened the iTunes Music Store a decade ago, making downloads available in some countries before others depending on their national release days, some music fans started getting jealous¡Xand in many cases desperate, often scouring free or illegal music sites for the newest releases rather than patiently waiting for their country¡¦s turn.

The phenomenon reached a fever pitch last year when the French electronic act Daft Punk released its album, ¡§Random Access Memories,¡¨ after a prolonged marketing campaign that had die-hard fans biting their nails. The album was released first on a Friday in Germany, Australia, Sweden and other Friday-first nations. Within minutes, one record company executive said he saw piracy spike ¡§through the roof¡¨ in parts of the world where the album wasn¡¦t yet for sale. Meanwhile, his social media feed was flooded with furious complaints from fans who couldn¡¦t buy the album because of their location.

Soon, major-label executives¡Xwho had been discussing a global-release day for years¡Xdecided to act.

The idea was floated at an IFPI board meeting in Berlin earlier this year, with the goal of getting the world to switch to Fridays by July 2015. Ms. Moore, the IFPI¡¦s CEO, said Friday was the ¡§most compelling¡¨ choice because toward the end of the week, fans are more active on social media and more likely to make spontaneous purchases.

An IFPI-commissioned study predicts that global releases could drive more than a 3% increase in global sales, with a Friday or Saturday release day yielding the best results.

Global recorded-music revenue fell 4% last year to $15 billion, according to the IFPI.

Crispin Hunt, a member of the former Britpop band the Longpigs, said he was helping the IFPI rally support because he thought global Friday releases would bring back ¡§a sense of occasion¡¨ to music, which he said ¡§has become a utility like water and electricity¡¨ heard when ¡§you go into the public toilets.¡¨

¡§When things come out sporadically, people go, ¡¥Oh, yeah, I¡¦ve heard that¡¦ ¡¨ said Mr. Hunt. ¡§It stops being exciting.¡¨ As for the practical challenges facing countries making the switch, ¡§I¡¦m pretty sure the logistics industry will be able to deal with it,¡¨ he said.

But music retailers in the U.S. and the U.K. aren¡¦t convinced Friday releases will boost business, and they want more evidence.

¡§The obvious retort is, ¡¥Who says?¡¦ ¡¨ wrote Kim Bayley, the head of Britain¡¦s Entertainment Retailers Association, in a recent article published in a British music-industry newsletter.

Michael Kurtz, who launched an annual ¡§Record Store Day¡¨ six years ago to drum up business for record stores, said he found it ¡§odd¡¨ that ¡§no one wants to speak to us about it,¡¨ given the obvious similarities. Mr. Kurtz supports picking one global release day, but worries that Friday releases could lead to mayhem over the weekend in the event of shipping errors or unexpected demand for certain albums.

Of course, Record Store Day falls on a Saturday, but ¡§that¡¦s like throwing a party¡Xyou can¡¦t throw a party on a Wednesday, because no one¡¦s going to show up,¡¨ he said.

Few countries appear to have based their long-standing national release days on rigorous research. Until 2009, for example, Germany had released new music on Mondays, apparently because it was simply the beginning of the week, said the head of Germany¡¦s music industry association, Dieter Gorny. The nation switched to Fridays in 2009 because consumers seem on Friday to have a ¡§better attitude for jumping into this kind of fun,¡¨ he said, though German record sales have fallen 7% since then, anyway, mirroring similar declines in most other countries.

In the U.S., John Marmaduke, former head of the retail chain Hastings Entertainment, takes credit for ¡§New Release Tuesdays.¡¨ He said his company asked the record labels to create a firmer street date in the 1980s because, without one, business had been complicated. Since Tuesday was one of the slowest days of the week, he said, ¡§we could garner that day as our own.¡¨

Tuesday also provided a ¡§safety day,¡¨ if product didn¡¦t arrive Monday, as well as ample time to replenish supplies before the weekend.

Tuesday is now also the day DVDs, Blu-ray discs and books come out.

Japanese labels chose Wednesdays so they would have a few days to monitor sales and prepare retailers with adequate supply for the weekends¡Xand they haven¡¦t yet jumped officially on the Friday bandwagon, said a spokesman for Japan¡¦s record-industry trade group.

Australia has shifted its release day twice over the past seven years¡Xeventually to Friday¡Xbut after several attempts at analysis, it¡¦s still ¡§impossible to tell¡¨ whether the moves made any difference, said Ian Harvey, president of the Australian Music Retailers Association. He said Fridays just seemed most ¡§sensible¡¨ given some of the issues that had arisen on other days. Some Saturday staffers weren¡¦t unpacking the releases as fast as weekday workers, for example, while Thursday releases ended up feeling premature. However, Australia didn¡¦t experience any logistical nightmares, he said.

¡§I¡¦m surprised people are as agitated as they appear to be,¡¨ said Mr. Harvey.

Mr. Fratt, in Nebraska, says he is busy encouraging independent record labels to ¡§not abide¡¨ if the street day is moved to Friday. ¡§Maybe we can derail this train,¡¨ he said.

Document WSJO000020141028eaar000rt


 Baseball-Giants' digital ballpark gears up for busy offseason
Reuters, 18:41, 28 October 2014, 812 words, Rory Carroll, (English)
SAN FRANCISCO Oct 28 (Reuters) - Ten years ago, when San Francisco's AT&T Park became the first sport's stadium to offer free Wi-Fi to fans, it was considered a novelty.
Document WCLBA00020141029eaas00005



World
The 10-Point.; A personal, guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal, from Editor in Chief Gerard Baker.

By Gerard Baker 
444 words
28 October 2014
13:11
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Greetings from Laguna Beach,

Here¡¦s an update on our WSJD Live technology conference:

Today Andrew Conrad, head of the Life Sciences team at the Google X research lab, revealed that Google is designing tiny magnetic particles to patrol the human body for signs of cancer and other diseases¡Xthe latest example of the company¡¦s sweeping ambition. The project, however, still appears to be more than five years from fruition. We also heard from Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, Hugo Barra, who defended the Chinese smartphone marker¡¦s business model which focuses on markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Axelle Lemaire, France¡¦s deputy minister for digital affairs, talked about the regulation of personal data, noting that European governments are discussing how to update rules for global tech titans. ¡§If they really want to be international players, they have to adapt a little bit more,¡¨ she said. FireEye¡¦s Kevin Mandia discussed tactics used in security breaches. Coursera CEO Richard Levin and Gene Block, the chancellor of the University of California in Los Angeles, explored the impact of massive open online courses, or MOOCs. And venture investor Marc Andreessen offered his thoughts on startup valuations and what needs to be done to make the technology industry more inclusive of women.

In case you missed it, yesterday Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma shared his interest in partnering with Apple in financial payments, and Apple CEO Tim Cook said he was going to meet with Mr. Ma this week to discuss the prospect. Today we look at the potential benefits and pitfalls of such an alliance, noting a host of technical and possible regulatory hurdles. During the conference, Mr. Cook also gave us an update on the recent launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps. In a review of Apple Pay, our personal technology columnist Geoffrey Fowler writes that the service beats PayPal and Google, but needs more reach before we can eradicate wallet bloat. And don¡¦t miss tomorrow¡¦s coverage of WSJD Live, which you can follow here. I will be interviewing News Corp Chairman Rupert Murdoch and Telefonos de Mexico chief Carlos Slim on the bets they¡¦ve won and lost. We will also hear the perspectives of other entrepreneurs, executives and innovators, including Sue Desmond-Hellmann, James Cameron and Steve Ballmer.

¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas006fb


 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as QE Sun Sets
MoneyBeat, 28 October 2014, 832 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141028eaas000jl



Tech
Popular Software Gives Hackers Easy Targets, DOD Official Says; Widespread Use of Microsoft Word, Apple OS X Is Endangering Us All, Dan Kaufman Says

By Danny Yadron 
285 words
28 October 2014
11:44
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XThe ubiquity of a handful of computer programs, such as Microsoft Corp.¡¦s Word or Apple Inc.¡¦s OSX operating system, is endangering us all, a Defense Department official said Tuesday at The Wall Street Journal¡¦s WSJD Live Global Technology Conference.

Dan Kaufman, head of innovation at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, said the widespread use of such programs gives hackers an easy way to target scores of people with one security hole.

¡§Cybersecurity today is just fundamentally broken,¡¨ Mr. Kaufman said, ¡§deeply and fundamentally broken.¡¨

Hackers find their way into machines¡Xboth classified networks and retailers¡Xby searching for unnoticed flaws in the software these networks use. After an initial incident, it can take weeks or years for other companies to patch their systems to prevent a similar incident using the software hole exploited in the original attack.

That gives hackers a big window to reuse the same cyberweapon.

The Defense Department official was joined on stage by Kevin Mandia, chief operating officer at FireEye Inc., which on Tuesday released a detailed report on a Russian cyberspying campaign that has relied on the same set of tools since 2007.

If Mr. Kaufman had his way, programs such as Microsoft Word or Apple¡¦s OSX would change continually, making it harder for hackers to exploit the same flaws repeatedly.

Mr. Kaufman¡¦s dream, however, could be a way off, because a constantly changing program would consume a computer¡¦s resources, slowing other tasks. Users ¡§won¡¦t put up with that,¡¨ he said.

Document WSJO000020141028eaas006bv


 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as QE Sun Sets
WSJ Blogs, 17:31, 28 October 2014, 797 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 up 1.2% at 1985.05. DJIA up 1.1% at 17005.75. Nasdaq Comp up 1.75% at 4564.29. Treasury yields rose; 10-year at 2.284%. Nymex crude oil up 0.5% at $81.42. Gold up 0.01% at $1,229.20/ounce.
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas006sh



Markets
Asian Morning Briefing: Dow Closes Above 17000

1,820 words
28 October 2014
13:07
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

MARKETS AT A GLANCE

(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)

SNAPSHOT:

U.S. stocks rallied Tuesday, with the Dow closing above 17000, as riskier corners of the market led benchmarks higher. Treasurys settled lower after an upbeat consumer report sapped demand for haven assets. Oil prices edged higher as the dollar fell. Gold ended flat ahead of the FOMC decision.

OPENING CALL:

On a quiet day for Asian data, Wednesday brings Japan¡¦s September preliminary industrial production figures. Economists see a rebound from an August slump. But Japanese industry has a long way to go if it is to shake off the shackles of domestic deflation and the lost production brought on by an exodus of manufacturers to more affordable production locations.

EQUITIES:

U.S. stocks rallied Tuesday, continuing a rebound from an early-October swoon and leaving the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq with gains for the month.

Fueling the bounce has been renewed confidence in the U.S. economy and corporate earnings, even as the Federal Reserve is expected to announce Wednesday it is ending the bond purchases it has been using to ease monetary policy. On Tuesday, stock prices gained with help from an unexpected jump in consumer confidence to its highest level since 2007. That encouraged investors to move back into areas that are seen as riskier, traders said, after they had fled some of those sectors during steep stock-market declines earlier this month. Small-cap stocks, energy shares and technology stocks posted the strongest gains, and safe-haven investments such as Treasurys declined.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index led major benchmarks, gaining 78.36 points, or 1.7%, to 4564.29. The index is up 1.6% in October.

The S&P 500 added 23.42 points, or 1.2%, to 1985.05 on Tuesday; it has gained 0.6% in October. The Russell 2000 Index, a small-stock benchmark, rallied 31.98 points, or 2.9%, to 1149.45.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 187.81 points, or 1.1%, to 17005.75. It remains slightly lower for the month, down 0.2%.

October initially looked like it would be a tough month for stock-market bulls, as global benchmarks fell on worries about economic growth. At stocks¡¦ latest closing lows on Oct. 15, the Dow had shed 5.3% for the month and was down 6.6% from its all-time high. The S&P 500 had a 5.6% loss and was 7.4% off its September record high. The Nasdaq had lost 6.2% and was trading 8.3% below its 2014 high.

But since then, stocks have largely recovered, as companies have posted better third-quarter results than expected, and some economic reports have been better than anticipated. The S&P 500 and Dow are now less than 2% below their all-time highs from mid-September.

¡§We thought the selloff was unfounded, and now people are buying into the notion that it wasn¡¦t based on any change in the fundamentals,¡¨ said David Lefkowitz, equity strategist with UBS Wealth Management. ¡§It¡¦s very good for the stock market.¡¨

In corporate news, Twitter sank 9.8% after it said Monday it added 13 million monthly active users in the third quarter, up 4.8%. That is a slower pace than the 6.3% added in the previous quarter. The slowing user growth overshadowed Twitter¡¦s revenue, which more than doubled in the quarter and prompted an increase in full-year guidance.

Markets in China outperformed their regional peers Tuesday with a gauge of Hong Kong-listed Chinese firms rallying its most in two months, while investors in other parts of Asia pulled back ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.

FOREX:

The dollar wobbled against its rivals following mixed U.S. economic data as investors tried to guess the Federal Reserve¡¦s next move.

The dollar had dropped early Tuesday after a measure of U.S. manufacturing fell for a second consecutive month, suggesting growth may have slowed in the third quarter and interest rates may stay low for longer.

The greenback later pared some of its losses against the euro and made gains against the Japanese yen after a rise in consumer confidence this month pointed to an improved short-term view on business and employment conditions in the U.S.

The euro rose 0.3% to $1.2734, its highest level in almost a week, while the pound climbed 0.1% to $1.6133. The dollar rose 0.3% versus the yen to Y108.16.

¡§If growth is lower than the Fed expects, the Fed probably will delay hiking,¡¨ said Vassili Serebriakov, currency strategist at BNP Paribas. ¡§This gives the market more reason to be cautious ahead of the Fed [decision] tomorrow, and scale back some of its dollar [long positions].¡¨

BONDS:

Prices of U.S. Treasury bonds pulled back, as an upbeat consumer confidence report and a rise in U.S. stock prices sapped demand for haven assets.

The bond retreat came as the Federal Reserve started its two-day policy meeting on Tuesday and is scheduled to release an interest-rate statement Wednesday afternoon.

In late afternoon trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 8/32 lower, yielding 2.284%. Yields rise as prices fall. The yield was 3% at the start of the year.

The monthly gauge of U.S. consumer sentiment jumped to 94.5 this month from 89 in September. The report suggested U.S. consumers remain upbeat over the economy despite the recent market turmoil and struggling growth in the euro zone. It overshadowed another release Tuesday showing purchases of durable goods, a gauge of business spending, fell by 1.3% in September.

¡§Higher stocks, new debt supply, and a very strong consumer confidence number sent bond yields higher,¡¨ said Mary Ann Hurley, vice president of trading in Seattle at D.A. Davidson & Co.

COMMODITIES:

Oil prices edged higher as the dollar fell and conflicting U.S. economic data kept markets in a holding pattern.

Light, sweet crude for December delivery rose 42 cents, or 0.5%, to settle at $81.42 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The global Brent contract rose 20 cents, or 0.2%, to $86.03 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.

Nymex crude held up for a second day after dipping below $80 a barrel on Monday, with some analysts saying they believe the tailspin that has dragged U.S. and global oil prices down by about 25% since mid-June appears to be over for now.

¡§All in all, I¡¦m in the camp that we¡¦re at or near the bottom in crude oil,¡¨ said Stephen Schork, an analyst and editor of industry trade publication the Schork Report.

Gold prices closed nearly unchanged as investors cautiously awaited the outcome of the Federal Reserve¡¦s policy-setting meeting, while palladium futures rose on hopes of improved industrial demand.

TODAY¡¦S HEADLINES:

TSMC Adds LG to Customer Base

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which has boosted its profile in the chip-manufacturing industry by signing deals with Apple, has added LG Electronics to its list of customers for the high-tech chipsets used in smartphones.

Facebook Results Improve on Mobile Ad Strength

Facebook registered its biggest-ever quarterly profit, but it slightly missed expectations for the first time in two years as a large increase in expenses weighed on the results.

U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Jumps

The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence increased to 94.5 in October from a revised 89.0 in September, showing that consumers are optimistic about the economy this month.

Pfizer Hasn¡¦t Ruled Out Potential Inversions, Chief Says

Pfizer hasn¡¦t ruled out pursuing a so-called ¡§inversion¡¨ acquisition that would lower its tax bill, though the drug maker¡¦s CEO acknowledged the U.S. Treasury Department¡¦s recent crackdown on such deals has diminished their appeal.

FTC Sues AT&T, Alleging Company Misled Consumers

The Federal Trade Commission filed a lawsuit alleging AT&T¡¦s wireless unit misled millions of consumers about its unlimited data plans, bringing its first case against a wireless carrier for data throttling.

U.S. Durable Orders Fall 1.3% in September

Orders for big-ticket manufactured goods fell for the second consecutive month in September, the latest sign of uneven improvement in the economy.

EU Won¡¦t Reject French, Italian Budgets

European Union authorities have decided not to raise serious objections to next year¡¦s French and Italian budgets, defusing an immediate standoff over the bloc¡¦s budget rules that could have led to swift fines against Paris and Rome.

Canada Clears Burger King-Tim Hortons Deal

Burger King Worldwide¡¦s planned $11 billion purchase of Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons cleared one regulatory hurdle when Canada¡¦s antitrust watchdog gave the proposed tie-up the green light.

YouTube Considers Offering Paid Subscriptions

Google¡¦s YouTube is working on a paid-subscription business model, a big change from the advertising-only approach that turned it into the world¡¦s largest online video website, according to a top executive at the Internet giant.

Fed¡¦s Dudley Spoke Frequently to Yellen on Exit Plans

Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley conferred frequently with U.S. central bank chief Janet Yellen over the spring as the policymakers mulled a new strategy to eventually wind down the Fed¡¦s ultra-easy policy stance.

RECENT DJ DOMINANTS:

Outerwall¡¦s Redbox, Lions Gate Reach New Deal on Movie Rentals

Two Canadian Pension Funds Renew Offer for Loral Space

Jefferies Expected to Book up to $15 Million Loss on Toms Shoes Debt ¡V Sources

EU to Give Next Batch of Loans to Ukraine

Deutsche Bank Hires Former Goldman Sachs Partner Sam Wisnia

TODAY¡¦S CALENDAR

(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)

2300 SKA Sep Balance of payments

2350 JPN Sep Preliminary Industrial Production

0000 NZ Oct ANZ Business Outlook

0001 UK Oct CBI Growth Indicator Survey

0745 FRA Oct Consumer confidence survey

0900 ITA Aug Large firms labour indicators

0900 EU ECB Bank Lending Survey

0930 UK Sep Bank of England effective interest rates

0930 UK Q3 Insolvency statistics

0930 UK Sep Monetary & Financial Statistics

0930 UK Sep Money and Credit - Lending to Individuals, Lending to Businesses, Broad Money and Credit

1100 US 10/24 MBA Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey

1230 CAN Sep Industrial product & raw materials price indexes

1400 US Sep Metropolitan Area Employment & Unemployment

1430 US 10/24 EIA Weekly Petroleum Status Report

1800 US U.S. interest rate decision

2015 CAN Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz appears at Senate Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce

2350 JPN Oct Provisional Trade Statistics for 1st 10 days of Month 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas006fa




In China, high demand for robots but too many robot manufacturers

944 words
28 October 2014
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

* Automation seen as solution to sliding Chinese productivity

* Central, local governments rolling out policy support, incentives

* Over 400 robot makers, 30 industrial parks for robotics

By Pete Sweeney

SHANGHAI, Oct 29 (Reuters) - China wants domestic companies to buy more locally made robots to lift productivity, but industry insiders have warned its policies are over-stimulating the market and that robot manufacturers were "coming up like mushrooms."

Government officials, worried that productivity growth may have turned negative since 2009, see the promotion of automation as a policy that will increase efficiency. Chinese manufacturers, struggling with increasing costs of labour, also favour more use of robots where possible.

The confluence of policy support and market demand made China the world's biggest buyer of robots in 2013, overtaking Japan.

At the same time, both central and local governments are encouraging new domestic players to capture market share from established foreign brands. In its five-year economic plan for 2011-2015, Beijing specifically targeted robotics as a key sector for development, hoping to create four or five domestic robotics "champion" firms to meet an annual production target of about 13,000 robots.

But Stefan Sack, CEO of robot manufacturer Comau Shanghai Engineering, warned that the government policies carried a risk.

"Government intervention can help industry to grow but it can also create bubbles," he said at a robotics industry conference, adding that small manufacturers in the sector were "coming up like mushrooms".

"Everybody wants to become a robot manufacturer now because it's sexy," Sack said.

The official Xinhua news agency reported on Monday that China now has 420 robot companies, adding that more than 30 industrial parks devoted to robotics were being built or were already functioning around the country.

Beijing's industrial policies have a history of going astray, most recently in renewable energy, where official endorsement of what was seen as a cutting edge technology resulted in duplicated investment around the country, ending in a wave of bad debt as profit margins were wiped out.

EARLY SIGNS

Although analysts said the robotics industry is not at that stage, there are already early warning signs.

"China's market is totally fragmented; you've basically got 31 provincial markets," said Andrew Polk, resident economist at the Conference Board research house in Beijing. "You get a directive on the central front to build robots or whatever, and everyone moves to create their own local champions."

"They are doing this at a point where wages are rising, but their comparative advantage is still relatively cheap labour," he added. "They could be pushing this too hard too early."

According to the China Robot Industry Alliance, about 37,000 robots were sold in China in 2013, almost three-fourths of them manufactured overseas.

The number of domestically produced industrial robots tripled to about 10,000 units, on track to meet Beijing's goal of having domestic brands account for a third of sales by 2015.

Official media said that by mid-summer, 54 listed Chinese companies had invested in robotics firms, of which 80 percent were first-time investors, causing the number of robot stocks to nearly triple since July 2012.

The mergers have been welcomed by mainland investors: when JS Corrugating Machinery Co Ltd said it would acquire a robotics firm in June, its stock spiked by 60 percent in a few trading days.

Established players are also doing well. Shanghai Siasun Robotics & Automation, one of China's best-known robot makers, is up over 50 percent this year and pricing at around 84 times earnings, far outperforming benchmarks.

GENUINE PROBLEM

Few economists dispute that the export powerhouse provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong, China's main manufacturing hubs, are facing a genuine problem.

"Zhejiang province is facing a worker shortage. We have new constraints on resources, input factors, and the environment; we need to adjust our economy's structure," said Zhou Tufa, division chief at the province's industrial investment department.

"We hope to substitute machines for labourers doing heavy physical work," he said in an interview in the provincial capital Hangzhou.

Local governments have adopted a variety of different stimulus tactics in robotics. Dongguan, a manufacturing centre in Guangdong, has been particularly aggressive, creating a 200 million yuan ($33 million) investment fund to subsidise robotics investments by local firms.

Wang Dayong, president of Zhejiang Sanhua Automotive Components, told Reuters that his major challenge is attracting and retaining workers, a problem he hopes robots can solve.

"We are automating for long-term competitiveness," he said.

But customers warned that demand for more robots does not equate to demand for more robot suppliers.

Frank Chuang, assistant director of manufacturing operations at Ford Greater China, said that since most robot manufacturers use customised operating systems and components, his company is conservative regarding suppliers.

"If we don't carefully select the robots, then in the near future we will generate not just programming language issues but also maintenance issues."

It is also possible that firm owners are over-estimating the potential benefits of automation.

For example Foxconn, a major supplier for Apple , said in 2011 that it aimed to have one million robotic arms in operation by 2014. It subsequently scaled back its plans, with managers saying the robots were not able to replace humans as effectively as expected.

Even automation enthusiasts like Wang of Zhejiang Sanhua are careful.

"There are still areas where robots aren't as good as people," he said. "Excessive automation carries its own risks."

($1 = 6.1385 yuan) (Additional reporting by the Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan) 

Released: 2014-10-28T22:00:00.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00nh6




Tech
GT Advanced Says It Can¡¦t Afford to Fight Apple, Must Settle; Screen-Material Supplier Said ¡§Litigation...Would Be Challenging and Expensive¡¨

By Peg Brickley 
666 words
28 October 2014
11:10
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

GT Advanced Technologies Inc. said it needs to settle disputes with Apple Inc. because ¡§protracted litigation against one of the largest corporations in the world with over $100 billion of cash would be challenging and expensive.¡¨

Jilted by Apple as a supplier of sapphire screen material for iPhones, GT Advanced filed for Chapter 11 protection earlier this month and moved to put under seal the explanation of what went wrong between the two companies.

Papers filed near midnight Monday say Apple is threatening to crush the small, distressed company with ¡§numerous liquidated damages provisions in the Apple Agreements pursuant to which Apple would likely assert millions, if not billions, of dollars in secured and unsecured claims against certain of the Debtors,¡¨ lawyers for GT Advanced wrote.

Apple, which signed the pact, didn¡¦t respond Tuesday to questions about the settlement.

Court filings spell out why GT Advanced, less than a month into a bankruptcy that shocked shareholders and creditors, decided to cut a deal with Apple, which financed its entry into the sapphire material making industry but declined to use the company¡¦s products when the new iPhones rolled out.

In a supplemental filing Tuesday, GT Advanced revealed it spent $900 million trying to produce ¡§sapphire in quantities, size and quality never before achieved,¡¨ to Apple¡¦s specifications. Apple financed less than half the cost of GT Advanced¡¦s failed attempt to make ¡§a product that Apple would accept,¡¨ court papers say.

Besides borrowing from Apple as it moved to transform its business, GT Advanced borrowed $214 million by issuing notes in 2013 and raised $71 million by selling stock, court papers say.

Unable to negotiate changes to the Apple agreements, GT Advanced found it ¡§would never realize a profit.¡¨ The Apple venture that was to have been ¡§revolutionary for GTAT¡¦s business,¡¨ instead plunged the company into a liquidity crisis with mounting losses ahead, court papers say.

Bankruptcy will allow GT Advanced to end its relationship with Apple and free the company to get back into the business of selling sapphire furnaces to other producers of electronic consumer products, according to a declaration from Daniel Squiller, GT Advanced¡¦s chief operating officer.

GT Advanced believes it could win disputes with Apple and may have ¡§various causes of action against Apple, including actions rooted in the Bankruptcy Code and breach of contract claims.¡¨ The cost of standing up to Apple in court would be too much for the New Hampshire-based company, court papers say.

Attorneys for the official committee of unsecured creditors haven¡¦t responded to questions about whether they are going to support the settlement. Creditors¡¦ lawyers also didn¡¦t respond when asked whether they are conducting an independent probe of the chances of suing Apple.

The settlement gives GT Advanced years to sell the sapphire-manufacturing furnaces to raise money to pay off the Apple debt.

Before agreeing to the settlement, GT Advanced moved to reject the agreements with Apple that contained the liquidated damages provisions. It won approval to shut down sapphire manufacturing operations at the Arizona facility and one in Massachusetts. If a bankruptcy judge approves the settlement, the contract rejection motion will be ¡§moot,¡¨ lawyers for GT Advanced wrote.

GT Advanced doesn¡¦t have a bankruptcy loan but expects to have one ¡§in several weeks,¡¨ court papers say.

The agreement hangs on getting a court order that orders the destruction of all copies of papers GT Advanced filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New Hampshire which explain the trouble between the sapphire supplier and Apple, and the reasons for the bankruptcy.

Dow Jones & Co, publisher of The Wall Street Journal; U.S. Trustee William Harrington, a Justice Department lawyer charged with monitoring the bankruptcy courts, and New Hampshire Attorney General Joseph Foster have challenged the secrecy in the case as illegal. 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas0053i




T-Mobile forecasts slower subscriber growth in 4th quarter

By Marina Lopes   
513 words
28 October 2014
15:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

WASHINGTON, Oct 28 (Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc warned on Tuesday that its torrid growth rate in subscribers fueled by aggressive promotions would slow in the fourth quarter along with billings per customer.

The cellular provider expects to add 700,000 to 1.1 million contract subscribers in the quarter ending Dec. 31, compared with 1.4 million in the third quarter, the company told investors in a call.

T-Mobile, which is controlled by Germany's Deutsche Telekcom , also said it expects a 2.5 percent dip in average revenue per user (ARPU).

T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier by number of subscribers, has attracted a wave of customers through discounts and campaigns that eliminated contracts and cut prices. But the rise in customers on promotional plans has weighed on margins.

"It is the nature of any customer acquisition-driven business that the faster you grow the more pressure it will put on profitability. You can't lose sight of the underlying economics," said Craig Moffett, analyst at MoffettNathanson.

On Monday T-Mobile announced the highest average billings per contract customer in the company's history along with high service revenue growth. Still, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization was flat year-over-year.

"We are very optimistic about the increase in ARPU going into next year," Chief Financial Officer Braxton Carter told investors. "We saw more of a promotional impact on Q4 than Q3," he said.

T-Mobile shares were up 1 percent to $28.28.

The telecoms operator expects to tackle renewed holiday competition in the fourth quarter by focusing on devices such as Apple Inc's iPhone, Chief Executive Officer John Legere told analysts.

"In this period of device change, I think that is a fascinating ground for us," he said, adding that the company will look to snag upwards of 17 million AT&T iPhone customers whose contracts are expiring.

"The possibilities for us and the challenges for them seem to be connected," Legere said of AT&T.

T-Mobile is for now going it alone after a series of potential deals were thwarted by regulatory and other issues. Still, Legere did not rule out potential partnerships in the future.

"You have got to think creatively about this industry. When you do, you will realize T-Mobile is a natural ally to other players trying to get into the United States," he said.

In recent months, rumors have emerged that America Movil , Latin America's biggest telecommunications company could be a potential buyer.

T-Mobile is under pressure to come up with the billions of dollars it will need to spend in an upcoming spectrum auction to get the lower-range frequencies it needs to better compete with rivals Verizon Communications Inc and AT&T.

America Movil's chief executive said earlier this week that the company is "not talking with anybody at this stage." (Reporting by Marina Lopes; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) 

Released: 2014-10-28T21:29:57.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00n03


 Google's Newest Search: Cancer Cells
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 28 October 2014, 553 words, (English)
Summary: In the latest example of its sweeping ambition, Google is designing tiny magnetic particles to patrol the human body for signs of cancer and other diseases. Tom Ortuso has that story and a look at Tuesday's big day for technology ...
Document MMSAJW0020141028eaas0002t

 Train Reading (Links): The Truth, or Something Like It, in One Chart
MoneyBeat, 28 October 2014, 200 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption alignright caption-alignright " style="width: 359px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> </dl> News, analysis and some curiosities to ease your commute home. Fed set to end QE3, but not the idea ...
Document BC08551020141028eaas000gr

 Stocks Soar More Than 1% At The Close
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 28 October 2014, 523 words, (English)
Summary: Consumer confidence rebounds in October, durable goods fell in September, AT&T is being sued for misleading smartphone customers and Wal-Mart offers the new Call of Duty video game ahead of schedule. Jen Ursillo has these ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141028eaas000rt

 5 Things to Read Today: Chris Christie Defends N.J. Ebola Quarantine, What¡¦s Wrong With $3 Gas? and More
WSJ Blogs, 15:07, 28 October 2014, 755 words, (English)
#1: Christie Defends Quarantine Policy, Calls CDC Guidelines 'Confusing'
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie called the Obama administration¡¦s new guidelines for isolating those exposed to Ebola ¡§incredibly confusing,¡¨ and defended the state¡¦s ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0060w

 Never Mind Software ¡V Mobile is Eating the World
WSJ Blogs, 10:55, 28 October 2014, 334 words, By Evelyn M. Rusli, (English)
It has been three years since Marc Andreessen, co-founder of the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, wrote his influential essay, "Why Software is Eating the World." Nothing has changed since then to cast doubt on the ideas he ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0060x



What to Watch in the Day Ahead - Wednesday, Oct. 29

1,293 words
28 October 2014
13:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The Day Ahead is an email and PDF publication that includes the day's major stories and events, analyses and other features. To receive The Day Ahead, Eikon users can register at . Thomson One users can register at RT/DAY/US. All times in ET/GMT) The Federal Reserve wraps up a two-day meeting that appears certain to end with an announcement that the U.S. central bank's bond-buying stimulus is coming to a close. Less certain is what Fed officials might say about the outlook for the economy and inflation, given an uncertain global backdrop that has led investors to reappraise when the central bank will be able to finally raise interest rates. Visa Inc, the world's largest credit and debit card company, is expected to report a fourth-quarter profit, helped by higher spending by customers using its cards. The company is looking to capitalize on the growing mobile payment business, as it has been gaining traction among businesses and consumers alike.

Visa, which partnered with Apple for its Apple Pay service, also launched online offerings like Visa Checkout and Visa Token. Visa lowered its full-year revenue forecast in July, citing slow growth in cross-border transactions. Global investment bank Deutsche Bank AG reports third-quarter results. Investment banking roared back to life in the quarter, but costs for fines and settlements are likely to have hit Germany's top lender hard. Barrick Gold Corp, the world's biggest gold producer, is expected to report lower third-quarter results on a weaker gold price and a fall in gold production after the sale of some of its higher-cost gold mines. The market's focus is likely to be on the way forward for Barrick following a number of key executive changes, including the elimination of its chief executive position. There will also likely be questions about Barrick's assertion that a higher royalty rate in Zambia could threaten the economic viability of its Lumwana copper mine. Canadian miners Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd and Yamana Gold Inc are expected to report third-quarter earnings. The market will likely be looking for updated commentary on Agnico's outlook for 2015, news on expansions at the Goldex and Kittila mines and any further scope for acquisitions following the purchase of Mexico-focused miner Cayden. Yamana's results are expected to be relatively low key, after the company announced preliminary production results earlier in the month that were in line with expectations. World's second-biggest uranium miner Cameco Corp reports third-quarter results, following a challenging period. Canada's biggest diversified metals company, Teck Resources Ltd, is expected to report lower third-quarter earnings on weaker coal and base metals prices, with the market's focus on the impact of China's recent decision to reimpose import tariffs on metallurgical and thermal coal. French oil company Total SA reports third-quarter results. The impact of the sharp drop in oil prices since June should start hurting, although a drop in the euro could temper that somewhat. Whiting Petroleum Corp, on the verge of buying Kodiak Oil & Gas to become North Dakota's largest oil producer, is expected to post a spike in third-quarter profit thanks to increased drilling. U.S. health insurer WellPoint Inc is expected to report a higher third-quarter profit. The company, which operates Blue CrossBlue Shield plans in 14 states, will also be expected to give a pulse check on Obamacare. Life insurer MetLife Inc is expected to report a rise in third-quarter profit, helped by derivative gains linked to credit spreads. The company, heavily exposed to persistently low U.S. interest rates, has a large derivatives program designed to reduce that risk. Last month, the Financial Stability Oversight Council proposed to designate the insurer as "systemically important," which could subject it to stricter oversight by the U.S. Federal Reserve. MetLife, which has vehemently opposed the proposal, has decided to contest the decision. Allstate Corp's estimated pre-tax catastrophe loss for the third quarter is expected to be about $517 million, down significantly from $936 million in the preceding quarter. The largest listed U.S. home and auto insurer has been raising insurance rates in its home insurance business to offset catastrophe losses and low interest rates on its investments. Chief Executive Thomas Wilson said Allstate's focus this year would be to attract customers to boost its market share rather than go for "abnormally large" price increases. Department chain operator Kohl's Corp's leadership team will host an investor conference to present their "multi-year growth" plans. Kohl's had said it expects third-quarter comparable sales to decrease 1.4 percent, hurt by weak demand for women's apparel. The company also said its 2014 earnings would be at the low end of its prior forecast of $4.05-$4.45 per share and that sales remained softer through October. Hershey Co, which makes Hershey's Kisses and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups, is likely to report a third-quarter profit above analysts' average expectations, according to StarMine. Investors will be looking for indications on how the price increase has impacted sales, particularly as rival Mondelez International had to cut 2014 sales targets in August after price hikes to cover commodity costs sparked a backlash by consumers and retailers in some European markets. After a slide in its shares this year, Eaton Corp will try to win back investors when it reports third-quarter results. The manufacturer of power systems and products has faced concerns about its markets and disappointed some investors when it signaled earlier this year that it would not spin off its vehicle business, as some on Wall Street had hoped. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co's results have been pressured this year, first from a severe U.S. winter that hurt auto demand and then by lower sales of its high-margin tires to automakers. The company has also sold fewer tires in Latin America, which has been hurt by lower vehicle production in Brazil and economic turmoil in Venezuela. These trends have also pinched rivals Bridgestone Corp and Michelin. Goodyear is the first of the group to report third-quarter results and investors will be watching for commentary on global auto production going into next year. SunPower Corp, the second-largest solar panel maker in the United States, is expected to report a lower third-quarter profit. Uneven revenue recognition from solar projects has been weighing on the company's results. The company is now diversifying into installation of solar panels on rooftops, a market dominated by SolarCity. Investors will look to see if SunPower will continue to lease out panels to customers, or adopt other financing methods. Also of interest to investors will be the formation of a yield co. Akamai Technologies Inc, whose networks help improve the quality and speed of content delivery, is likely to report third-quarter revenue above the average analyst estimate, according to StarMine. Akamai is benefiting from higher consumption of online video and streaming music and the company had forecast current-quarter profit and revenue largely above estimates. However, higher spending on sales, marketing and research and development may impact profit as the company is investing more on developing higher margin services to compete with rivals. Network equipment makers JDS Uniphase Corp and F5 Networks Inc are scheduled to report first-quarter and fourth-quarter results, respectively. JDS Uniphase's profit is expected to beat the average analyst estimate, according to StarMine data. F5 Networks is also expected to report results slightly above the average a 

Released: 2014-10-28T19:46:48.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00kzy


 Train Reading (Links): The Truth, or Something Like It, in One Chart
WSJ Blogs, 10:54, 28 October 2014, 185 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
News, analysis and some curiosities to ease your commute home.
Fed set to end QE3, but not the idea of QE - WSJ
The next time, the Fed should just give the money to the people - Council on Foreign Affairs
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0060u



GT Advanced sought to avoid costly battle with Apple -filing

253 words
28 October 2014
13:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 28 (Reuters) - GT Advanced Technology Inc , which struck an agreement with erstwhile partner Apple Inc last week that allowed it to proceed with its bankruptcy, said the iPhone maker had threatened to seek damages of more than $1 billion against the company.

Former stock market darling GT Advanced, once set to become the main supplier of scratch-resistant sapphire to Apple, surprised markets when it filed for Chapter 11 earlier this month. It failed to meet performance targets set out in its supply agreement with Apple, setting the stage for its failure, according to court filings.

GT Advanced said in a court filing late on Monday that it needed to settle with the iPhone maker to avert a costly legal battle it might not win.

"The alternative to the settlement agreement would be months, if not years, of costly, time-consuming, and distracting litigation with Apple over a wide range of contested issues, the success of which GTAT could not guarantee," the company said in a court filing late on Monday.

"Apple has advised GTAT that it would assert liquidated damages claims for in excess of $1 billion against GTAT," according to the filing. Liquidated damages are awarded when a party to a contract fails to perform as promised.

Apple, which has more than $100 billion in cash, was not immediately available for comment. (Reporting by San Francisco newsroom; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) 

Released: 2014-10-28T19:09:34.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00jpv

 Apple Hearts China
MoneyBeat, 28 October 2014, 200 words, Dan Gallagher, (English)
Apple may or may not strike a partnership with Alibaba, but the iPhone maker has strong reasons for wanting to find new ways to grow its business in China. During on-stage interviews at this week¡¦s WSJD Live conference, Apple CEO Tim Cook ...
Document BC08551020141028eaas000e1

 Xiaomi's Hugo Barra on Apple's Design Language
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 304 words, (English)
Summary: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra offers his thoughts on Apple's approach to product design at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, Calif.
So I've had a few times and I'll repeat that. In our designers our engineers are inspired by great ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas0018i

 Whisper and the Meaning of Anonymity
WSJ Blogs, 11:40, 28 October 2014, 1134 words, By Elizabeth Dwoskin, (English)
Once upon a time, few people cared about online anonymity beyond privacy activists and hardcore security types.
Now it¡¦s anyone who uses an app that promises to keep their secrets. Programs like Whisper, Snapchat, Secret, and Yik Yak let ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas004sb

 The International Opinion of American Tech
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 389 words, (English)
Summary: France's Deputy Minister for Digital Affairs Axelle Lemaire discusses what she believes technology companies like Facebook and Apple need to do to become true international players at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas00105



WSJ.D Technology: Apples Surprising Driver: the Mac --- Computer Line's Unit Sales Up 21% And Revenue Tops That of the iPad

By Daisuke Wakabayashi and Shira Ovide   
1,117 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

During a quarter marked by frenzied demand for the latest iPhones, Apple Inc. logged its biggest sales gains with a product heading into middle-age: the Mac.

On the 30th anniversary of the first Macintosh, a 21% jump in unit sales helped Apple's computer line leapfrog the sagging iPad to become the company's second biggest-selling product line in revenue terms, just behind the iPhone.

The Mac line generated revenue of $6.625 billion in the quarter, more than iPad revenue of $5.316 billion.

Demand for Macs rose amid falling sales of Windows PCs, giving Apple more than 6% of the global PC market, according to the research firm IDC. That percentage is Apple's highest market share since 1995, when Microsoft Corp. established its dominance over the computer market with Windows 95. The Mac gained market share in 33 of the last 34 quarters, lifting its share from 2.1% in 2006, according to IDC.

Several factors have contributed to the Mac's steady rise in the last eight years: a halo effect conferred by popular Apple devices like the iPhone and iPad; a decision to stop charging for updates of Mac operating software; high visibility through the company's own retail stores; and Apple's introduction of innovative designs like the MacBook Air at lower prices than the company usually charges.

Apple also has benefited recently from its relatively greater popularity in developed markets like the U.S. and Western Europe, where consumer demand for PCs has been relatively steady.

Macs, of course, cost considerably more than tablets, so in unit terms tablets still outsell Macs. For the fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 27, Apple sold 39.27 million iPhones, 12.32 million iPads, and 5.52 million Macs.

Macs remain niche products. Apple laptops, even after price cuts to two models this year, on average sell for nearly three times the price of a Windows-based notebook, according to retail-store data from market-research firm NPD Group.

Some customers find Apple's products worth the extra expense. Ali Mirza, a 21-year-old law student at the University of Edinburgh, said he bought a Lenovo Y500 laptop last year after years of owning a Mac. He thought the Lenovo would provide better value because it had higher specifications at a cheaper price. But as problems with his computer piled up, Mr. Mirza decided to go back to a Mac. He purchased a 13-inch MacBook Pro last week.

"A computer is more than the sum of its parts," said Mr. Mirza. "I could get a cheaper computer, but I probably wouldn't get the same value out of it as I would out of a Mac."

Apple's popularity in other sorts of devices has given the Mac a boost. The iPhone, in particular, has breathed new life into the Mac by serving as a gateway for customers who wouldn't otherwise have considered buying an Apple computer.

"If somebody has a great experience with an Apple product the first time, they are much more likely to buy another Apple product," said Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of marketing, noting that "a very large number" of first-time Mac owners purchased the computer after buying an iPhone.

Apple is trying to lure more iPhone users to the Mac by linking smartphone features to the computer. The company recently added so-called continuity features that help Apple devices to work better together. For example, a user can start writing an email on an iPhone and continue writing it on a Mac, switching freely between the two devices.

IPhones generated $23.7 billion in revenue for the quarter.

Apple started to gain market share in 2006 with its launch of MacBook laptops, which had a starting price that was more affordable than its earlier laptops.

Apple also had a hit with its MacBook Air laptop, which went on sale in 2008 and introduced a new category of computers with slim profiles and improved battery life that Windows PC makers have sought to copy.

Price cuts have reduced the MacBook Air's starting price to $899, more within reach of Windows buyers. Computers in the MacBook Air's category are the only part of the PC market expected to grow this year and in 2015, according to research firm Gartner Inc.

The company also benefits from heavy traffic in Apple stores where prospective customers can try new Macs.

Last year, Apple stopped charging for updates of its Mac OS X operating system, a change that may prod shoppers wondering whether to buy immediately or wait for fresh features in the next version.

For the fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 27, Apple sold 39.27 million iPhones, 12.32 million iPads, and 5.52 million Macs.

Gaining further market share won't be easy for Macs, particularly now that Microsoft and its PC allies have begun to regain their footing after a historically awful 2013, when total PC sales (including Macs) fell 10%. World-wide sales were down only 1.7% in the three months ended Sept. 30 compared with a year earlier, IDC said.

Moreover, the biggest Windows PC vendors are making sales that, in prior years, might have gone to tablets, including iPads. In the past year, the PC market has gotten a helping hand from new types of Windows computing devices such as so-called convertibles that work as both laptop and tablet.

Convertibles may be tempting people who wouldn't have bought a PC at all. In surveys of thousands of people who bought higher-end convertible PCs, 48% said they chose the new device over a tablet, according to the research backed by Intel Corp., which makes the computer chips used in nearly all PCs as well as Macs.

In the PC market, "It's not as boring as it was a couple of years ago," said NPD Group analyst Stephen Baker. "There's a little more choice."

Apple's competitors also have opened new fronts in pricing. Microsoft last spring started charging PC makers a cut-rate price for a type of Windows software, making it possible for manufacturers to offer PCs for less than $200.

Such rock-bottom prices helped expand the pool of PC buyers who might otherwise have purchased either a tablet, a Chromebook (a stripped-down laptop powered by operating software from Google Inc.), or no computing device at all, according to analysts and industry executives.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas00024

 Let's Talk Arts Chats With Michael Feinstein
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 28 October 2014, 2648 words, (English)
Summary: Let's Talk Arts chats with Michael Feinstein about the reopening of the Rainbow Room. Also, the latest on Pharrell Williams joining the Apollo Theater's board.
Document MMSAJZ0020141028eaas000jh



Twitter Slammed by Slow User Growth

By Yoree Koh   
872 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

One year after its initial public offering, Twitter Inc. is still having a hard time convincing investors to look beyond one touchy metric: user growth.

The social-media company reported Monday that revenue once again more than doubled in the third quarter to $361 million, surpassing expectations and causing it to raise guidance for the full year.

But Twitter's user growth -- the percentage change in the number of users who log in at least once a month -- slowed again after gaining momentum in recent quarters, reigniting concerns the service is having trouble keeping up with the growth of larger rival Facebook Inc.

Twitter's shares sank about 10% in after-hours trading on Monday to $43.65, shaving off roughly $3 billion in market value to about $26.9 billion. The drop washes out some of the stock advances from three months ago, when Twitter reported strong second-quarter results across the board and investors sent shares surging 29%.

The issue for the San Francisco company lies in convincing investors it is bigger than what it appears to be, as Wall Street remains stubbornly focused on user gains over moneymaking. The more users that sign up and spend time on Twitter, the more potential for targeted advertising, Twitter's main revenue source.

On Monday, Twitter said it added 13 million monthly active users in the three months through September, up 4.8%, reaching 284 million users world-wide. While in line with some analysts' expectations, it is a slower pace than the 6.3% it added in the previous quarter.

"We had another very strong quarter financially," said Chief Executive Dick Costolo during an earnings call with analysts. "I'm happy with the strategies and the quality of the work we're doing but given our significant aspirations and the breadth of the opportunity in front of us, it's more critical than ever that we increase our overall pace of execution."

Increasing user numbers as well as engagement has been a top priority for Twitter ever since it went public in November, after which investors knocked the company for showing signs that its size may have peaked.

Since then, the company has focused on making the service simpler to use for members beyond the early adopters. At the same time, Twitter executives have spoken out about Twitter's reach beyond core users amid the inevitable comparisons with Facebook, which has more than four times the active users at about 1.32 billion.

On Monday's call, Mr. Costolo attempted to explain Twitter's total audience "as a series of geometrically eccentric circles." In short, he said, there are three audience groups: the core users; those who visit the site but don't log in; and those who see Twitter content embedded on other sites across different screens, known as the syndicated audience.

Twitter's primary focus in recent quarters has been to improve the experience across all of these groups.

This quarter it rolled out a redesigned sign-up process to get new users up to speed faster by getting them to follow voices they would find interesting sooner. Mr. Costolo said a new user profile design on Apple's iOS system has increased interaction among the logged-out audience.

The latest quarter didn't have a big event such as World Cup soccer games to help drive usage. Twitter executives had credited the soccer tournament for encouraging users to check the service for scores. On the call with analysts, Twitter financial chief Anthony Noto said international growth also suffered from not having other big events such as the elections in India. And he cited "authentication issues" in Asia that cost the service one to two million users.

At the same time, it is becoming less clear how "engaged" users are on the site. This is emblematic of Twitter's growing pains as "timeline views," the company's own measure of user activity, has become less relevant amid the slew of product changes. Twitter said "timeline views," counted each time a user refreshes a page on desktop or mobile device, reached 181 billion, an increase of 14% from a year earlier and 4.6% from the second quarter.

But timeline views per monthly active user declined 7% to 636 views per monthly active user compared with a year earlier.

Evercore analyst Ken Sena said the metric increasingly doesn't reflect other forms of engagement, such as shared tweets, visits to profile pages or when a user listens to an audio track.

"I don't blame anyone who relies upon those metrics," said Chris Sacca, a venture capitalist and longtime Twitter investor, referring to user growth and timeline views. "But, the long-term story will show that they aren't good measures."

Twitter has yet to turn a profit, and posted a loss of $175.5 million in the latest quarter, as it continues to build out its business and compensate newly hired engineers.

The company projected fourth quarter revenue to be in the range of $440 million to $450 million and raised its full-year projection to as much as $1.38 billion.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas00030



REFILE--Former Google exec's app aims to tackle chronic illness

556 words
28 October 2014
12:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(Removes EMBARGOED from headline)

By Christina Farr

SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 28 (Reuters) - Having difficulty managing chronic disease? Now there's an app for that.

Vida, a new startup founded by Google Inc's former commerce chief, aims to help patients get healthy, reduce stress levels and lose weight through online "health coaches."

Many mobile health apps focus on fitness. Vida, started by Stephanie Tilenius, a former Google and eBay executive, claims to help tackle chronic diseases, which account for more than three-quarters of U.S. health-care spending, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

"People don't know how to manage these conditions," Tilenius said in an interview with Reuters.

Tilenius said she started the company after witnessing her father struggling with his health, while existing coaching tools were too expensive, she added.

For $15 a week, patients can ask questions, and receive medication reminders and health advice from Vida's team of coaches including nurses, medical assistants, nutritionists and doctors. To ensure high-quality care, Tilenius said the company only accepted and trained 1 percent of people who applied to be a coach, who are paid on an hourly basis.

Doctors and other caregivers can request access to the app to monitor progress over time.

Tilenius has made previous forays into healthcare. She co-founded an online pharmacy startup called PlanetRx in the 1990s but did not return to the health sector until recently.

The "timing is right," she said.

Apple Inc, Google Inc and other Silicon Valley tech giants are currently exploring opportunities in the relatively untapped field of healthcare.

Capital funding for digital health systems in the first half of 2014 reached $2.3 billion, more than the total for all of the previous year, according to a study by Rock Health, which provides startups in the sector with funding and support.

Vida, which is available on Apple's iOS 8 operating system, is integrated with the iPhone maker's HealthKit service, so it can pull in patient-generated data from a variety of wearables and mobile medical devices, such as glucometers. An app for Google Android phones will be released in the coming months.

Vida is also developing a database of clinical trials and disease prevention programs for users. Those include Dr. Mark Hyman's The Blood Sugar Soluton, a treatment program for diabetics and those at risk of contracting the disease.

The startup is now partnering with major U.S. hospitals, like the MD Anderson Cancer Center and Duke University Hospital, which are using the app to deliver remote care to chronically ill patients. She said the company is testing its product with employers, but declined to provide details as those pilots are ongoing.

"A lot of different vendors have been trying to solve this problem, but Vida can drive behavior change," said Jennifer Fonstad of Aspect Ventures, an early investor in the startup. Fonstad said employers are "highly motivated" to adopt tools that can help workers stay healthy and productive.

Vida recently raised $5 million in startup funding from venture firms including Khosla Ventures, Aspect Ventures and Signia Venture Partners, as well as individuals like Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang. (Reporting By Christina Farr; Editing by Alan Crosby) 

Released: 2014-10-28T18:02:20.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00i0h




Tech
Alibaba Eyes Payments Tie-Up With Apple; Jack Ma Says He¡¦s Interested in Partnering With U.S. Tech Firm

By Rolfe Winkler And Yun-Hee Kim 
736 words
27 October 2014
21:07
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XAlibaba Group Holding Ltd., which recently raised $25 billion in the world¡¦s biggest initial public offering in the U.S., is interested in partnering with Apple Inc. in financial payments, the Chinese company¡¦s executive chairman said.

Jack Ma made the comment during an interview at the WSJD Liveglobal technology conference in California late Monday night.

¡§I hope we can do something together,¡¨ Mr. Ma said, though he cautioned that it should be a ¡§marriage¡¨ that both sides want.

Alibaba is already a giant in payments. Its PayPal-like payments service, Alipay, has 300 million active users, Mr. Ma said at the conference. Apple jumped into payments this month with the launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps.

Later in the evening, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the same conference he is going to meet with Mr. Ma later this week to discuss potential partnerships. He said Alibaba has all the traits of a company that Apple would like to partner with, though he didn¡¦t specify whether Apple will work with Alibaba in payments.

Mr. Ma also said that while he¡¦s in California, he is looking into partnerships in the movie business.

¡§China will be the largest movie market in the world,¡¨ Mr. Ma predicted.

Alibaba has been making a push into entertainment to capture a share of what it thinks will be a booming market in China.

In July, Alibaba announced a deal with Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. to make available on Alibaba set-top boxes offerings such as the ¡§Twilight¡¨ hit vampire movie series and the TV show ¡§Mad Men.¡¨

Since its IPO in September, Alibaba shares have risen 44% and the company has a market capitalization of more than $240 billion, making it larger than Amazon and eBay combined.

Asked whether Alibaba would be interested in buying PayPal after it splits from parent eBay Inc., Mr. Ma demurred. ¡§I have my Alipay,¡¨ he said.

Alibaba transacted nearly $300 billion in gross merchandise value in the 12 months through June on its Chinese retail marketplaces like Taobao and Tmall.

Mr. Ma also said that he sees ¡§great opportunities in e-commerce in the U.S.¡¨

In June, Alibaba launched a U.S. shopping website, 11 Main, and Mr. Ma noted there is room for more competition beyond the big U.S. e-commerce giants.

¡§Amazon, eBay. You need more.¡¨

Mr. Ma also said that he hopes to connect more American small businesses with China¡¦s booming market, citing huge demand for foreign goods among Chinese consumers. He said that while the last 10 years were about Chinese exports, the next 10 will be about Chinese imports.

Speaking about China, Mr. Ma said he hopes Alibaba can help solve longer-term problems, including health issues that spring from China¡¦s rapid industrialization and the extensive pollution that has been the result.

He also spoke about how he hopes Alibaba will continue to disrupt the Chinese financial system, after its Alipay unit¡¦s money-market fund received slightly under $100 billion in deposits after its launch in June.

¡§If banks do not change, let¡¦s change the banks,¡¨ he said, noting Alipay is the third-largest payment service in the world after Visa and MasterCard.

He said Alibaba wants to build a credit system for individuals and small businesses and ¡§radically¡¨ change the Chinese financial system.

Speaking about the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, Mr. Ma said the ¡§Hong Kong part of me (thinks) it¡¦s not about China and Hong Kong relationship. It¡¦s about the young people who don¡¦t have hope. All the big guys take...the good things and the young people feel hopeless. I understand that but they should not push too much. Both sides should listen.¡¨

Hong Kong students have taken to the streets for more than four weeks to protest Beijing¡¦s decision to allow only prescreened candidates to run for the city¡¦s highest chief executive position. Protesters want to choose their own candidates, a move that Hong Kong¡¦s government and Beijing officials say isn¡¦t possible.

--Daisuke Wakabayshi contributed to this article. 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas0018j


 WSJD Live: Alibaba-Apple Partnership?
The Wall Street Journal WSJ Lunchbreak, 28 October 2014, 716 words, (English)
Summary: WSJ's Deborah Kan joins Lunch Break with Tanya Rivero to share highlights from the WSJD Live tech conference, including what may be a deal in the making between Apple and Alibaba.
Document MMSAWI0020141028eaas00003



Fitch Affirms Santa Clara Valley Water District, CA's $115MM COPs at 'AAA'; Outlook Stable

1,098 words
28 October 2014
11:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The following statement was released by the rating agency) SAN FRANCISCO, October 28 (Fitch) Fitch Ratings has affirmed its 'AAA' rating on the following certificates of participation (COPS) of the Santa Clara Valley Water District, CA (the district): --$9.3 million series 2004A; --$62.7 million series 2007A; --$43 million series 2012A. The Rating Outlook is Stable. SECURITY The COPs are payable from installment payments made in connection with the 1994 Installment Agreement (for the series 2003A and 2012A COPs) and 1995 Installment Agreement (2007A COPs). The installment payments are secured by a first lien on gross revenues of the district's flood control system, which include voter-approved benefit assessments. KEY RATING DRIVERS STRONG BASE PROVIDES ASSESSMENTS: The fixed benefit assessments are levied on all parcels in Santa Clara County's (the county) very large, wealthy, and diverse tax base.

 GUARANTEED COLLECTIONS OFFSET COVERAGE: The county guarantee of 100% of the benefit assessments levied minimizes variability in pledged revenue, offsetting the 1.25x maximum annual debt service (MADS) limit to the benefit assessment. LIMITED OPERATING RISK: The flood control operations have limited operational risk. RATING SENSITIVITIES SHIFTS IN ASSESSMENT PAYERS: The rating is sensitive to a significant decline in the number or economic profile of parcels in the district. The Stable Outlook reflects Fitch's expectation that such a change is highly unlikely. CREDIT PROFILE STRONG STRUCTURAL CHARACTERISTICS The district is a multi-purpose special district, coterminous with the county and charged with providing flood protection services and water to county residents. The COPs are secured by gross revenues of the flood control system. In 1986 and 1990, voters authorized the district to levy benefit assessments on all district parcels based on the benefit received by each parcel from flood control services while simultaneously limiting the total benefit assessments levied to 1.25x MADS on certificates outstanding prior to June 30, 1995, or refundings of those COPs. Fiscal 2015 assessments on residential properties range from $15 to $44 per parcel in the district's five flood zones. The district covenants to annually reset the benefit assessments levied to provide debt service coverage (DSC) of 1.25x MADS. The assessment is levied on property on parity with all other property taxes and collection is guaranteed by the county, which participates in the Teeter program. The property tax base is diverse, with the top 10 largest benefit assessment payers accounting for about 6.7% of the total. FAVORABLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE; SOUND COVERAGE Financial results within flood control operations (which are included in the district's governmental activities) are strong, characterized by high fund balance levels. Though COPs are primarily secured by the assessment levies, they are ultimately secured by a gross revenue pledge on virtually all flood control system revenues. Aside from the benefit assessments, the primary source of flood control system revenue is the district's portion of the county 1% property levy that it allocates to flood protection. The district allocated $55.6 million of the 1% property tax (or about 50%) to the flood control system in fiscal 2013, resulting in DSC of about 4.95x, according to the district's fiscal 2013 continuing disclosure annual report. However, this tax allocation is at the discretion of the board; in any year the board could elect to allocate no portion of the 1% property tax to flood control. Fitch believes that this is unlikely; nonetheless, the 'AAA' rating relies solely on the security provided by the benefit assessment. BROAD AND EXPANDING TAX AND ASSESSMENT BASE The district and county encompass 1,330 square miles, 1.8 million residents, and more than 400,000 parcels. Fitch expects the number of parcels to remain fairly stable The county economy is strong and diverse. The county's assessed valuation (AV) increased by 2.8% on average annually from fiscal 2008-2014 despite a 2.3% decline in fiscal 2011, reflecting the impact of the housing correction. AV has since recovered with gains of 0.9% and 3.2% in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, respectively. Fiscal 2014 AV jumped 8.4% and fiscal 2015 AV is reportedly up another 6.8%, reflecting the county's currently very strong economic growth. Wealth levels are well above average (per capita income is 139% of the state level). The economy has above-average exposure to the cyclical high-technology sector, but also benefits from a significant amount of venture capital invested in local companies. Large private employers include Google, Cisco, Apple, Stanford University, Stanford Hospitals and Clinics, Kaiser, Applied Materials, Lockheed Martin Space Systems and Intel Corporation. Contact: Primary Analyst Karen Ribble Senior Director +1-415-732-5611 Fitch Ratings, Inc. 650 California Street, 4th Floor San Francisco, CA 94108 Secondary Analyst Andrew Ward Director +1-415-732-5617 Committee Chairperson Amy Laskey Managing Director +1-212-908-0608 Media Relations: Elizabeth Fogerty, New York, Tel: +1 (212) 908 0526, Email: elizabeth.fogerty@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available at 'www.fitchratings.com'. In addition to the sources of information identified in Fitch's Tax-Supported Rating Criteria, this action was additionally informed by information from Creditscope. Applicable Criteria and Related Research: --'Tax-Supported Rating Criteria' (Aug. 14, 2012); --'U.S. Local Government Tax-Supported Rating Criteria' (Aug. 14, 2012). Applicable Criteria and Related Research: Tax-Supported Rating Criteria http://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/reports/report_frame.cfm?rpt_id=686015 U.S. Local Government Tax-Supported Rating Criteria http://www.fitchratings.com/creditdesk/reports/report_frame.cfm?rpt_id=685314 Additional Disclosure Solicitation Status http://www.fitchratings.com/gws/en/disclosure/solicitation?pr_id=909114 ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTP://FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEBSITE 'WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM'. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE 'CODE OF CONDUCT' SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. 

Released: 2014-10-28T17:28:44.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00hza


 The Future of Venture Capital Valuations
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 398 words, (English)
Summary: Marc Andreessen discusses how the future of venture capital valuations will be affected as technology permeates more industries, at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, Calif.
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas000ul

 Tim Cook on Retailers That Refuse Apple Pay
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 355 words, (English)
Summary: Apple's Tim Cook discusses his thoughts on retailers that refuse Apple Pay, at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, Calif.
It's real challenge now this whole issue with Ronald some of these retailers directional wouldn't ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas000dz



UPDATE 1-Smartphone launches boost Gorilla glass maker Corning

369 words
28 October 2014
09:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(Adds executive comments, details, estimates, shares)

By Abhirup Roy

Oct 28 (Reuters) - Corning Inc, the supplier of Gorilla glass to Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics , reported higher-than-expected quarterly revenue and earnings, helped by launches of new smartphone models.

Shares of the company, which also supplies LCD panels to consumer electronics companies such as Sony Corp, LG and Lenovo Group, rose 1.6 percent in early trading.

Smartphones such as Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and Samsung's Galaxy Alpha were launched in the quarter ended Sept. 30. Corning said it would launch a new version of Gorilla glass on Nov. 20.

The company, however, said fourth-quarter core sales in its speciality materials business, which makes Gorilla glass, were expected to decline by low- to mid-teen digits percent from the third quarter due to the absence of any major new launches.

"What happens after a new launch is at some point, they take enough glass to continue to build out their products and that's why we think that in the fourth quarter, we'll see sales down," Senior Vice President Tony Tripeny told Reuters.

Its LCD panel volumes in the current quarter are expected to be flat or fall slightly from the previous quarter as most of the holiday season orders had been shipped in the third quarter, Tripeny said.

Corning had been hurt by falling LCD glass prices in the past few quarters, but the company said the pace of the price decline was moderating.

The company's core net sales rose to $2.65 billion in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 from $2.1 billion, a year earlier.

Net income rose to $1.01 billion, or 72 cents per share, from $408 million, or 28 cents per share.

The company reported core earnings of 40 cents per share.

Analysts on average had expected an adjusted profit of 37 cents per share and revenue of $2.63 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Corning shares were up 1 percent at $19.04 on the New York Stock Exchange. (Editing by Kirti Pandey) 

Released: 2014-10-28T15:12:56.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00eia


 BitBeat: Apple Pay¡¦s Challenges; Uber¡¦s New Blockchain Competitor
MoneyBeat, 28 October 2014, 804 words, Paul Vigna and Michael J. Casey, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Getty Images</dd> ...
Document BC08551020141028eaas000b9

 Viral Video of the Week: Beats Welcomes LeBron Home
WSJ Blogs, 09:58, 28 October 2014, 155 words, By Steven Perlberg, (English)
The NBA regular season begins tonight, but one frequent basketball-related advertiser already has a viral hit.
Headphone maker Beats?has a new ad leveraging basketball phenom LeBron James's return to Cleveland. In the ad, a buff Mr. James ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0048t

 Tim Cook on Apple's Role in Fitness
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 264 words, (English)
Summary: At WSJD LIVE Conference Tim Cook talks about the role that Apple product play in wearable technology, health and fitness.
And so I I think that when you're dealing with the wellness. Fitness. And the pro active pieces of health but ...
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas000dx

 Wall Street Wary of Low Durable Goods Figures
WSJ Live: News Hub AM, 28 October 2014, 876 words, (English)
Summary: U.S. durable orders fell 1.3% in September, Apple CEO Tim Cook is optimistic about Apple Pay and a look at three stocks. WSJ's Dan Strumpf has the details on the News Hub with Simon Constable. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAVZ0020141028eaas0002u

 Tim Cook on Partnering With Jack Ma
Wall Street Journal Video, 28 October 2014, 188 words, (English)
Summary: At the WSJD Live Conference in Laguna Beach, Calif., Apple's Tim Cook discusses his thoughts on what it would be like to partner with Alibaba's Jack Ma.
Document MMSAJB0020141028eaas000gq

 Tim Cook: Apple Pay Had Very Strong Debut
WSJ Live: News Hub AM, 28 October 2014, 553 words, (English)
Summary: Apple, Google and Sirius XM are among stocks to watch. WSJ's Dan Strumpf has the details on the News Hub with Simon Constable. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAVZ0020141028eaas00001

 Apple hops on board Obama program to wire up schools
Reuters India, 19:47, 27 October 2014, 327 words, FRANCISCO Tue Oct, (English)
The Apple logo is pictured inside the newly opened Omotesando Apple store at a shopping district in Tokyo June 26, 2014.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) plans to dole out $100 million in grants to U.S. schools as part of the ...
Document WC45421020141028eaas0001x

 Alibaba's Ma says open to working with Apple on payments
Reuters India, 23:18, 27 October 2014, 331 words, Deepa Seetharaman, (English)
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma speaks after accepting the Game Changer of the Year award during the Asia Society's Game Changer Awards at United Nations headquarters in New York October 16, 2014.
Document WC45421020141028eaas0001u

 Apple CEO fires back as retailers block Pay
Reuters India, 00:16, 28 October 2014, 455 words, Deepa Seetharaman, (English)
LAGUNA BEACH Calif. (Reuters) - Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook fired back at CVS and Rite Aid on Monday after the drugstore chains blocked the iPhone maker's mobile payments service, saying there were plenty of other retailers around the world to ...
Document WC45421020141028eaas0001r

 CMO Today: Fall Classic Disappoints in the Ratings
WSJ Blogs, 07:27, 28 October 2014, 1026 words, By Mike Shields, (English)
Here¡¦s your morning roundup of the biggest marketing, advertising and media industry news and happenings. Send tips, suggestions and complaints to mike.shields@wsj.com .
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0030d

 BitBeat: Apple Pay¡¦s Challenges; Uber¡¦s New Blockchain Competitor
WSJ Blogs, 05:13, 28 October 2014, 772 words, By Paul Vigna and Michael J. Casey, (English)
Welcome to BitBeat, your daily dose of crypto-current events, written by Paul Vigna and Michael J. Casey.
Bitcoin Latest Price: $352.24, up 0.9% (via CoinDesk )
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas003pd

 The Daily Docket: Oncor Auction Rules Fight Wraps Up
WSJ Blogs, 05:07, 28 October 2014, 226 words, By Melanie Cohen, (English)
Unsecured creditors are campaigning to stop, or at least slow,?Energy Future Holdings Corp.'s plan to auction its stake in the Texas transmission business Oncor, a sale the company says is crucial to resolving one of the biggest ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas003mm

 The Morning Download: A Lowe¡¦s Robot Aims to Cut ¡¥Friction¡¦ From Big-Box Shopping
CIO Report, 07:05, 28 October 2014, 2457 words, By Tom Loftus, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141028eaas0005l

 Apple¡¦s Next Chapter: A Q&A With Tim Cook ¡V Recap
WSJ Blogs, 01:39, 28 October 2014, 2007 words, (English)
Apple CEO Tim Cook took the stage at the?WSJD Live conference?for a conversation with?Journal editor in chief?Gerard Baker about Apple's future.
More:
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar0048u



Speciality glass maker Corning's quarterly net sales rise 23 pct

124 words
28 October 2014
06:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

Oct 28 (Reuters) - Speciality glass maker Corning Inc reported a 23 percent rise in quarterly net sales, helped by higher demand for its glass used in TVs and smartphones.

The company supplies glass for Apple Inc's iPhones and Samsung Electronics' Galaxy devices, and makes LCD panels for Sony Corp, LG and Lenovo Group , among others.

Corning said net sales rose to $2.54 billion in the third quarter from $2.07 billion, a year earlier.

Net income rose to $1.01 billion, or 72 cents per share, from $408 million, or 28 cents per share. (Reporting by Abhirup Roy in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) 

Released: 2014-10-28T12:36:06.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas00aro


 CDC Rejects Mandatory Ebola Quarantines
The Wall Street Journal This Morning, 28 October 2014, 5963 words, (English)
Summary: CDC rejects mandatory Ebola quarantines, 2014 vs. 2012: Two portraits of American voters, and are you a psychopath? Your boss wants to know.
Document MMSAJX0020141028eaas00001



Tech
Apple CEO Tim Cook Happy With New Apple Pay Service; iPhone Will Still Account For Most of Apple¡¦s Revenue and Profit

By Daisuke Wakabayashi 
588 words
27 October 2014
20:29
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XApple Inc. Chief Executive Tim Cook said more than one million credit cards were activated on the company¡¦s new Apple Pay service within 72 hours of its debut last week.

Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference, Mr. Cook said the number of activations makes Apple Pay the largest mobile-payment offering.

Mr. Cook said reports of retailers such as Rite Aid Corp. and CVS Health Corp. not accepting Apple Pay at stores amounted to a skirmish. Neither company had officially joined Apple¡¦s network, but some customers last week found they could use Apple Pay in Rite Aid and CVS stores. The two retailers later disabled that functionality; it wasn¡¦t immediately clear why.

Rite Aid and CVS, along with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Best Buy Co., are part of a retailer-owned mobile-technology group called Merchant Customer Exchange, which will employ software that can be used on both iPhones and Android phones. The service is still in pilot mode and won¡¦t roll out nationally until next year.

Mr. Cook expressed confidence that Apple Pay will thrive in the long run.

¡§You are only relevant as a retailer or merchant if your customers love you,¡¨ he said. ¡§It¡¦s the first and only mobile payment system that¡¦s easy, private and secure.¡¨

Apple started its payment service on Oct. 20, allowing U.S. consumers to buy items at more than 220,000 stores or inside apps using the latest iPhones and a thumbprint.

Apple has signed up the six biggest credit-card issuers, accounting for roughly 83% of credit-card transactions in the U.S., with 500 financial institutions coming by early next year. It also has the three major credit-card networks: Visa Inc., MasterCard Inc. and American Express Co.

Despite the potential and growth of Apple Pay, Mr. Cook said the iPhone will probably comprise the majority of the company¡¦s revenue and profit for the next three to five years.

Asked about suggestions from investor Carl Icahn that Apple should repurchase more of its own shares, Mr. Cook said dryly, ¡§Yes, we have some cash.¡¨

Apple reported holding roughly $155 billion in cash and investments at the end of September. Mr. Cook said Apple bought back $17 billion worth of stock during the September quarter, and $45 billion in the fiscal year through September.

Mr. Cook said share repurchases are a good thing, but secondary to reinvesting in Apple¡¦s business.

He also addressed recent criticism from law enforcement regarding Apple¡¦s decision to encrypt data on its iPhones when locked.

¡§I look at that and say if law enforcement wants something, they should go to the user and get it. It¡¦s not for me to do it,¡¨ said Mr. Cook.

He added that it was better that the company didn¡¦t design its products ¡§with the keys under the mat,¡¨ because hackers could exploit the same opening.

Mr. Cook also made a thinly veiled criticism of Google Inc., saying that Apple wasn¡¦t checking what its users are searching, reading its users¡¦ email, or tracking the temperature in their homes or what they are buying.

¡§We¡¦re not Big Brother,¡¨ said Mr. Cook. ¡§We¡¦ll leave that to others.¡¨

An email sent to Google PR wasn¡¦t immediately answered.

Shira Ovide and Rolfe Winkler contributed to this article. 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas001e2


 Speciality glass maker Corning's quarterly net sales rise 23 pct
Reuters, 06:36, 28 October 2014, 234 words, (English)
Oct 28 (Reuters) - Speciality glass maker Corning Inc reported a 23 percent rise in quarterly net sales, helped by higher demand for its glass used in TVs and smartphones.
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas003ph



World
The 10-Point.; A personal, guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal, from Editor in Chief Gerard Baker.

By Gerard Baker 
704 words
28 October 2014
01:30
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Good morning from Laguna Beach,

On the first day of our WSJDLive conference, we explored questions about technology¡¦s ever-increasing role on the world stage. Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma said that the e-commerce giant is interested in partnering with Apple in financial payments, cautioning that it should be a ¡§marriage¡¨ that both sides want. When I asked Apple CEO Tim Cook about the possibility, he expressed interest. Mr. Cook also told me that more than one million credit cards were activated on the company¡¦s new Apple Pay service within 72 hours of its debut last week. Today, we will hear the perspectives of investors, including Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel. With the conference in the backdrop, we also examine challenges that come with advancements in technology, such as regulatory concerns on the web. In our revealing example, law-enforcement officials want Icann, the closest thing the Internet has to a regulator, to take action against websites suspected of selling drugs without a prescription, but the Internet gatekeeper says its powers are limited. And speaking of investors, Twitter shares tumbled yesterday after the messaging service reported slowing user growth. For more coverage of our event¡Xwhich will continue through Wednesday¡Xfollow #WSJDLive on Twitter, and get the latest news and videos here.

Gasoline prices have dropped below $3 a gallon at most U.S. gas stations, offering Americans a welcome break at the pump. But we find that the news also carries a thorny underside. Our story looks at how the latest drop is spurring debate over how much falling prices will squeeze domestic producers. High oil prices have driven the recent energy boom, making it possible to use costly drilling techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing. While the price drop gives consumers a lift before the holidays, producers could see profits shrink and investors may rethink their investments in the sector. We note that Wall Street¡¦s oil bulls are already throwing in the towel, conceding that the 25% drop in crude prices since June won¡¦t be reversed soon. But perhaps the most crucial question is what lower prices mean for oil-rich states such as Texas, Oklahoma and North Dakota. ¡§If the wheels come off, the energy-producing economies are going to suffer,¡¨ noted a senior director at Rice University¡¦s Center for Energy Studies.

Federal officials rejected the mandatory quarantines that at least two states have ordered to contain the spread of Ebola. We report that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that people deemed to be at high risk of developing the virus voluntarily isolate themselves from others for 21 days¡Xcountering New York and New Jersey, which imposed more stringent measures. We note that the news comes as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie¡¦s administration said that a nurse held in a tent in a Newark hospital would be privately transported to her home in Maine. She had publicly challenged her isolation over the weekend. Meanwhile, we find that a 5-year-old boy who had been showing Ebola-like symptoms after recently returning to New York from West Africa doesn¡¦t have the disease, a spokesman for New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation said yesterday.

While many people dread the cold season, some actually cheer up and draw energy from the long, dark days of winter. Our Work & Family columnist Sue Shellenbarger looks at new research that is shedding light on the possible causes of summer blues and ways to cope. ¡§People complain about snow, while I hope every potential flake turns into a blizzard,¡¨ notes one sufferer. Potential reasons for hating the summer include aversion to humidity, allergies to pollen and psychological triggers such as hating to sweat. Descending into the New York City subway in the warm weather triggers this primal response from another loather of summer: ¡§It¡¦s like Satan¡¦s basement.¡¨ For a deeper look at research on seasonal mood swings and methods to deal with it, be sure to read Sue¡¦s column.

¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 

Document WSJO000020141028eaas002pb


 The Morning Ledger: The Opposite of Share Dilution, and a Pay Boost to Boot
CFO Report, 05:27, 28 October 2014, 2636 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each ...
Document WCCFO00020141028eaas0005l

 Russia Linked to Cyberattacks
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 28 October 2014, 826 words, (English)
Summary: A new report points the finger at Russia over recent cyberattacks; Alibaba wants to partner with Apple on mobile payments; Twitter's growth rate slows and YouTube to offer ad-free subscriptions. WSJ's Mathew Passy has details on ...
Document MMSAJW0020141028eaas00001

 Kano Rides Global Coding Wave
WSJ Blogs, 01:54, 28 October 2014, 740 words, By Lorraine Luk, (English)
Riding on growing interest in coding, London-based startup Kano Computing Ltd. has shipped thousands of toolkits that allow users to build a computer and write software easily.
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas001b9



Corporate News: Alibaba Shows Interest in Apple Payments

By Rolfe Winkler   
436 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. -- Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which recently raised $25 billion in the world's biggest initial public offering in the U.S., is interested in partnering with Apple Inc. in financial payments, the Chinese company's executive chairman said.

Jack Ma made the comment during an interview at the WSJD Live global technology conference in California late Monday.

"I hope we can do something together," Mr. Ma said, though he cautioned that it should be a "marriage" that both sides want.

Alibaba is already a giant in payments. Its PayPal-like payments service, Alipay, has 300 million active users, Mr. Ma said at the conference. Apple jumped into payments this month with the launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps.

Later in the evening, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the same conference he is going to meet with Mr. Ma later this week to discuss potential partnerships. He said Alibaba has all the traits of a company that Apple would like to partner with, though he didn't specify whether Apple will work with Alibaba in payments.

Mr. Ma also said that while he is in California, he is looking into partnerships in the movie business.

"China will be the largest movie market in the world," Mr. Ma predicted.

Alibaba has been making a push into entertainment to capture a share of what it thinks will be a booming market in China.

In July, Alibaba announced a deal with Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. to make available on Alibaba set-top boxes offerings such as the "Twilight" hit vampire movie series and the TV show "Mad Men."

Since its IPO in September, Alibaba shares have risen 44% and the company has a market capitalization of more than $240 billion, making it larger than Amazon and eBay combined.

Asked whether Alibaba would be interested in buying PayPal after it splits from parent eBay Inc., Mr. Ma demurred. "I have my Alipay," he said.

Alibaba transacted nearly $300 billion in gross merchandise value in the 12 months through June on its Chinese retail marketplaces like Taobao and Tmall.

Mr. Ma also said that he sees "great opportunities in e-commerce in the U.S."

In June, Alibaba launched a U.S. shopping website, 11 Main, and Mr. Ma noted there is room for more competition beyond the big U.S. e-commerce giants.

---

Daisuke Wakabayshi contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas0003a




PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 28

385 words
28 October 2014
00:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

Oct 28 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories in the Wall Street Journal. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.

* The Centers for Disease Control recommended that people deemed to be at high risk of developing Ebola voluntarily isolate themselves from others for 21 days, but stopped short of recommending the mandatory quarantines that at least two states have ordered. (http://on.wsj.com/1wD924O)

* Computer-security experts say they found what they describe as a sophisticated cyberweapon on a network at a U.S. firm harboring military secrets, and that the spy tool was built during Moscow working hours. (http://on.wsj.com/1tC3c62)

* Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, which recently raised $25 billion in the world's biggest initial public offering in the United States, is interested in cooperating with Apple Inc in financial payments, the Chinese company's executive chairman said. (http://on.wsj.com/1sxoI5e)

* The FDA, Interpol and dozens of countries want the Internet's central administrator to help shut down sites suspected of selling drugs without a prescription, but Icann's powers are limited. (http://on.wsj.com/1tBbolL)

* The United States is imposing additional tariffs on Mexican sugar imports next week, but the new fees may be short-lived. (http://on.wsj.com/1pSTOV7)

* Europe's yearlong banking stress tests were to provide the public with reliable, comprehensive data about the finances of the continent's lenders. But some errors and inconsistencies nonetheless crept into the test results. (http://on.wsj.com/1tBbwSb)

* Madison Square Garden said it would explore separating its entertainment businesses from its media and sports operations, and that it was nominating Nelson Peltz and Scott Sperling to its board. (http://on.wsj.com/1yG5yzR)

* An internal disagreement within the Securities and Exchange Commission is threatening potentially lucrative revenue streams at Bank of America Corp, according to people close to the situation. (http://on.wsj.com/1wD94cK)

* General Motors Co - trying to stir some buzz around the next generation Chevrolet Volt plug-in - said Tuesday it would move production of the vehicle's electric drive unit to its home state of Michigan from Mexico. (http://on.wsj.com/1xyuiZH) (Compiled by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore) 

Released: 2014-10-28T06:15:41.000Z

Document LBA0000020141028eaas005eh




Heard on the Street
Overheard

177 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
C10
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

James Dimon won't like this.

Back in 2011, J.P. Morgan Chase and its chief relinquished the title of biggest U.S. bank by market value to Wells Fargo. Now comes a further indignity: J.P. Morgan's market value late last week was overtaken by Facebook's. This happened as the tech giant, which reports results Tuesday, issued new shares to fund its purchase of WhatsApp. Markets didn't ding Facebook for the dilution, so its value rose. It was worth $224 billion Monday versus about $221 billion for J.P. Morgan.

Facebook joins the ranks of tech stalwarts such as Apple, Google and Microsoft, all with market values bigger than J.P. Morgan's. Tech's dominance is really clear when you look at Apple: J.P. Morgan and Wells have a combined market value equal to only three-quarters that of the iPhone maker. No wonder graduates increasingly choose Silicon Valley over Wall Street these days.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas0001k




WSJ.D Technology: Samsung's Primacy Is Tested By Rise of Chinese Players

By Jonathan Cheng   
806 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

SHANGHAI -- Samsung Electronics Co.'s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong.

The 30-year-old apparel-company employee and Shanghai resident last year traded his Galaxy S3 phone, one of Samsung's most successful products, for a handset made by Beijing-based upstart Xiaomi Inc., which a few months ago displaced Samsung as China's No. 1 smartphone seller.

Xiaomi's phone offers better software and services, Mr. He says, at a fraction of a new Samsung's price. "To me, it looks like it's the same quality, but one costs 2,000 yuan ($327) and the other is 3,500 yuan," says Mr. He. "So why would I pick Samsung?"

Across China -- and around the globe -- other people are starting to feel the same way. Samsung has lost its top position for mobile-phone sales in India, and research firms that track smartphone shipments say it is in danger of being toppled in Thailand and the Philippines. Though Samsung is still the No. 1 smartphone maker globally, it has been losing market share in recent quarters.

In China, where Samsung gets 18% of its total sales, the company is parachuting in executives and outside consultants to assess the problem and figure out how to fix it, according to people with knowledge of the moves. The company is lowering prices for its existing handsets by up to 20% and preparing to roll out a new, cheaper line of smartphones for emerging markets, the people said.

The steps are part of a larger attempt to shore up the mobile-phone division, which accounts for around 60% of Samsung's operating profit.

On Thursday, the company is expected to report that operating profit for the quarter ended in September has fallen by about 60% from a year earlier, following a 20% decline in the quarter before, largely because of what the company acknowledged was "increased competition" in China.

After leading sales in the Chinese smartphone market every quarter for the past two-and-a-half years, Samsung dropped behind Xiaomi during the quarter ended June, tying for second place with Lenovo Group Ltd. and Coolpad Group Ltd., according to data tracker Canalys.

Samsung has cut the bonuses of hundreds of managers in its mobile division, according to people familiar with the matter. In an attempt to streamline operations, Samsung is combining many of its main business divisions in the U.S. under one chief, say people with direct knowledge of the move. That could foreshadow a similar consolidation of leadership at headquarters, where the company is run by three co-chief executives, said one of these people.

In an attempt to bring down its manufacturing costs, Samsung opened a $2 billion mobile-phone factory in Vietnam last year, and in July won approval from Vietnamese authorities for another factory to produce smartphone and tablet displays.

A Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on its China strategy or personnel moves.

Samsung began building up extensive distribution networks to sell its televisions and mobile phones in the 1990s, giving it a sizable head start versus Apple when it began roll out high-end smartphones. Since most Chinese consumers buy their phones at mobile-phone or consumer-electronics retail outlets rather than through carriers, Samsung's network of stores let it reach consumers from small villages to big cities like Beijing and Shanghai.

Recently, however, more Chinese consumers are buying phones online, and many of Samsung's Chinese rivals, like Xiaomi, sell primarily that way, which also lowers their overhead. Xiaomi sells its handsets at close to cost, aiming to make money on software and services sold over the phones instead -- a tactic that lets it undercut Samsung prices.

Samsung's Chinese rivals run Google Inc.'s Android operating system -- like the vast majority of Samsung's smartphones. But they have been more efficient at pre-loading sales-generating apps on their phones and promoting their own app stores.

Samsung, by its own admission, has been slow to respond. The company kept its prices high, even on lower-tier smartphones.

To unload excess inventory, Samsung has lowered some smartphone prices in China by between 10% and 20%, a tactic that could help it recapture some market share in the second half of the year, Canalys says.

The company is also preparing to release -- initially in China -- a new line of smartphones dubbed Galaxy A, a midrange phone that offers many of the features of a high-end Galaxy S device but is priced more competitively with Chinese phones, according to people familiar with the plans.

---

Fanfan Wang in Shanghai contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Document J000000020141028eaas0000p


 PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 28
Reuters, 00:15, 28 October 2014, 210 words, (English)
Oct 28 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories in the Wall Street Journal. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas001p8

 Samsung¡¦s China-Sized Problem
WSJ Blogs, 19:58, 27 October 2014, 283 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. has a China-sized problem on its hands.
But you can boil down a lot of the troubles to the changing tastes of people like Hu Bangwei, a 40-year-old marketing executive at an educational company in Shanghai.
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0002t



Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance

257 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
2
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Three Chinese companies, including the country's biggest nuclear-energy firm, are planning to raise about $10 billion in initial public offerings in Hong Kong before the end of the year.

---

Apple's Mac helped the company log its biggest sales gains in the quarter with a 21% jump in unit sales, as its computer line passed the iPad to become the firm's second-biggest-selling product line, behind the iPhone.

---

Canon raised its profit outlook for the business year through December, despite the continuing fall in sales of digital cameras.

---

India's Adani wants to sell part of its stake in Australia's Abbot Point coal port as part of an expansion plan, hiring Morgan Stanley, which expressed concern about the project's environmental impact.

---

The Russian ruble, hurt this month by lower oil prices, hit another record low versus the euro-dollar basket.

---

Malaysia's biggest state-run pension fund plans to bid for a stake in one of the U.K.'s largest port operators in a $2 billion deal.

---

China's benchmark index fell to its lowest level in five weeks, after a trading program allowing more foreign investment into mainland China was delayed.

---

Chiquita agreed to a buyout from a Brazilian orange-juice maker and investment firm for $742 million.

---

Merck tightened its outlook for the year as the effect of patent expirations again weighed on its sales for the most recent period.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

1102

Document AWSJ000020141027eaas00015




Asia
What¡¦s News¡X

432 words
27 October 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Business & Finance

Three Chinese companies, including the country¡¦s biggest nuclear-energy firm, are planning to raise about $10 billion in initial public offerings in Hong Kong before the end of the year.

Apple¡¦s Mac helped the company log its biggest sales gains in the quarter with a 21% jump in unit sales, as its computer line passed the iPad to become the firm¡¦s second-biggest-selling product line, behind the iPhone.

Canon raised its profit outlook for the business year through December, despite the continuing fall in sales of digital cameras.

India¡¦s Adani wants to sell part of its stake in Australia¡¦s Abbot Point coal port as part of an expansion plan, hiring Morgan Stanley, which expressed concern about the project¡¦s environmental impact.

The Russian ruble, hurt this month by lower oil prices, hit another record low versus the euro-dollar basket.

Malaysia¡¦s biggest state-run pension fund plans to bid for a stake in one of the U.K.¡¦s largest port operators in a $2 billion deal.

China¡¦s benchmark index fell to its lowest level in five weeks, after a trading program allowing more foreign investment into mainland China was delayed.

Chiquita agreed to a buyout from a Brazilian orange-juice maker and investment firm for $742 million, after the banana company¡¦s shareholders rejected a separate merger.

Valeant hinted at the prospect of a higher takeover offer for Botox maker Allergan, which raised its guidance for the year, as both companies angle for support ahead of deadlines.

Merck tightened its outlook for the year as the effect of patent expirations again weighed on its sales for the most recent period.

World-Wide

Japan sent an official delegation to North Korea to examine progress on Pyongyang¡¦s probe into the fates of Japanese nationals the North abducted decades ago.

A global body criticized Pakistan¡¦s efforts to eradicate polio, saying it was the biggest obstacle to the goal of stopping world-wide transmission of the disease by the end of 2014.

Germany pledged a strong response to street violence after a far-right demonstration against Islamic fundamentalism in Cologne descended into a riot.

President Poroshenko¡¦s party began talks to form a ruling coalition in Ukraine¡¦s Parliament as vote counting continued after Sunday¡¦s parliamentary election.

A nurse being held at a Newark hospital under an Ebola quarantine is allowed to leave and will be transported to her home in Maine, New Jersey Gov. Christie said. He had faced criticism after the nurse documented her isolation. 

Document WSJO000020141027eaas004sa


 How the Day of Release Could Affect Music Sales
WSJ Blogs, 17:31, 27 October 2014, 365 words, By Hannah Karp, (English)
Many American music retailers are perfectly happy stocking new music on Tuesdays, as they have for decades, and worry that doing it on Friday -- a move being pushed by the global music industry -- could sap midweek business and create ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaar000dz

 Exclusive - Amazon buys comedy service Rooftop Media to expand digital content
Reuters India, 13:09, 27 October 2014, 396 words, Liana B. Baker, (English)
By Liana B. Baker NEW YORK (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc is buying online comedy service Rooftop Media, a small deal that underscores the Internet retailer's broader ambition of becoming a media and entertainment powerhouse. Amazon is ...
Document WC45421020141028eaar0001v



Special
A Buyer¡¦s Guide to Business Computers; Many Companies Switch to Tailoring Purchases to Individual Needs

By Shira Ovide 
1,676 words
26 October 2014
19:42
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

For companies looking to buy workplace computers, the decision used to consist of two basic choices: Laptop or desktop? Windows or Mac? Now, the options for employees¡¦ computing needs are becoming increasingly diverse¡Xand confusing.

The popularity of smartphones and tablets in people¡¦s personal lives helped spark a broader rethinking of how work gets done, and what computing devices are best to keep employees happy and productive. On the wane is the idea of companies buying 5,000 of the same brand desktops for everybody, and repeating the cycle every five years or so.

¡§It¡¦s definitely not a one-size-fits-all world anymore,¡¨ says J.P. Gownder, a Forrester Research Inc. analyst who consults with companies on their technology.

That means more companies are mixing it up, tailoring their computer choices to fit a variety of jobs. One company may have a fleet of iPads for its salespeople to show coming shoe designs to clients, and conventional desktop PCs for its workers at the home office. Others are buying stripped-down laptops that rely mostly on connections to corporate networks via the Internet. And a small number of businesses are letting the employees decide what kinds of computers work best for their jobs.

Mr. Gownder¡¦s basic advice to companies: Do an audit. Ask employees¡Xthrough simple survey programs like SurveyMonkey, and during in-depth interviews¡Xhow they use computers, phones and tablets for work, and what they feel they¡¦re missing. And he says companies shouldn¡¦t forget to pay attention to what workers are doing and using without corporate permission. That may be even more revealing than what they say in a survey.

For businesses trying to balance costs with complexity and strategic goals, here is a rundown of five categories of workplace computing options, and the major benefits and drawbacks of each.

1. The Old Standby: Windows

Computers running the Windows operating system have been a workplace staple for three decades, and remain appealing to companies for three big reasons: familiarity, compatibility and breadth.

Most software¡Xparticularly older or customized corporate programs¡Xhas been built to work best on Windows. IT staff know how to work on and fix problems with Windows machines. Workers know how to use Windows (although Microsoft Corp.¡¦s latest version, Windows 8, has prompted some retraining). The variety of machines using Windows means there¡¦s practically a PC for every need.

Website publisher CBS Interactive has been shifting some of its computer purchases back to Windows PCs from Apple Inc.¡¦s Mac computers. The CBS Corp. unit says it¡¦s gravitating toward Windows laptops that are similar in look and feel to the slim MacBook Air, but with work-friendly features such as more ports to connect machines to desktop computer monitors.

With new types of machines¡Xlike PCs that can double as tablets, or those that seek the same long battery life and sleek look of the MacBook Air¡XMicrosoft and its allies are trying to ditch their reputation for making the clunky, bug-prone workhorses employees hate to use.

Companies that sell PCs to businesses say the biggest gripes about Windows-based machines are in part due to the businesses saddling their workers with old and underpowered machines. Make sure to purchase machines hardy enough to run all the software employees need, they say.

2. Tablets

For many workers, tablets are an add-on rather than a replacement for their PCs. Experts say companies need to make sure tablets are worth the extra cost, since they are fragile and easy to lose.

For road-warrior workers, however, or technicians who hardly ever sit at a desk, tablets can be revolutionary.

Mary Kay Inc. says tablets have changed how its three million sales consultants pitch the company¡¦s beauty products. Using a customized app called ¡§Show and Sell,¡¨ created with New York firm ScrollMotion Inc., the Mary Kay reps tailor what skin-care products they show women. And they can connect a tablet to a TV so groups of women at Mary Kay parties can watch how-to videos about the products.

For the consultants, this is a big improvement from the days when they had to make women flip through a thick catalog to show a handful of products that were appropriate for their age or skin type. The consultants also can hand the customer the tablet to make a purchase right away. ¡§That really helps make the sale easier,¡¨ says Sara Friedman, Mary Kay¡¦s vice president of U.S. marketing.

But businesses can¡¦t just give employees tablets without a plan. For instance, companies need to make sure that all of the software their workers use can be accessed from mobile devices. That can be a complicated and costly effort. General Electric Co., for example, made a significant investment to rework its applications to work seamlessly on tablets and phones.

And buyer beware. Just because the boss decides tablets are the ticket to productive workers, it doesn¡¦t mean the devices will catch on. Even if the tablets truly are more useful than a desktop, broad acceptance often depends on what the managers themselves are using.

AMAG Pharmaceuticals Inc. buys iPads for its workforce of more than 150 people, but many of them sit unused in people¡¦s desk drawers, says Nate McBride, a vice president for the Waltham, Mass.-based company. Many of AMAG¡¦s managers don¡¦t have the time or the inclination to incorporate the tablets into their work lives, and employees follow their lead, Mr. McBride says.

3. Chromebooks or ¡§Virtual¡¨ Desktops

Another mobile option is what the technology industry calls ¡§thin clients¡¨¡Xmachines where most if not all tasks are done over the Internet or via remote corporate-computing networks. Almost nothing is saved on the computer itself.

The most visible examples of this are Chromebooks, which are simplified laptops powered by Google Inc.¡¦s Chrome operating system. Companies including Citrix Systems Inc., VMware Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. also sell ¡§virtual desktop¡¨ software that gives employees remote access to a handful of work applications or a mirror of their corporate PCs from any Internet-connected device.

The downsides of thin clients are many. Chromebooks and computers using virtual-desktop software sometimes are incompatible with software that was designed to be installed on the computer itself, such as the teleconference service GoToMeeting from Citrix. And while lots of work-related apps for tablets were designed to function offline, the thin clients are nearly entirely dependent on having a good broadband or cellular network connection.

For business users that can make do with limited computing features, however, thin clients¡¦ big benefits of low cost and control outweigh the risks.

Chromebooks are inexpensive to buy and replace, and it¡¦s easy to fix problems remotely, says David Hoff, senior vice president of technology at Cloud Sherpas, an Atlanta-based firm that helps companies buy technology from Google and other providers. Chromebooks typically cost $250 to $350 each, plus $150 a machine for business support. Managers can set up a list of common Web bookmarks for many employees at once, or restrict which websites or other functions the Chromebook user can access.

Full-size iPads, by comparison, cost $499 and up for the latest model. And while iPads can also be managed remotely, it¡¦s not as easy as it is with a Chromebook.

Mr. Hoff says his firm is seeing the most adoption of Chromebooks by companies with lots of mobile employees who previously weren¡¦t using computers at all. One of his clients, for example, is a chain of franchised deli restaurants that has a few hundred managers who pop from store to store and don¡¦t have a regular desk or an IT staff to help when things go wrong. For them, he says, Chromebooks make sense because the managers¡¦ needs¡Xand their resources¡Xare limited.

4. Macs

The knock on Macs in the workplace has been they¡¦re expensive, they lack built-in tools to manage large numbers of computers at once, and sometimes aren¡¦t ideal to use with common workplace applications, many of which are tailored to work best¡Xor only¡Xon Windows PCs. Some of those objections are easing, particularly as workers do more with software designed for the Web.

Jason Wudi, chief technology officer for JAMF Software, a Minneapolis-based company that provides tools for businesses to manage Macs, says companies don¡¦t often set out to buy Mac computers, but often do so in capitulation to employees.

¡§We go where people are already demanding and dragging in their user devices,¡¨ Mr. Wudi says.

In some industries, such as media or technology firms, potential new recruits also expect a Mac on every desk, and not having them can be a barrier to recruiting.

5. Bring Your Own Device

For a small number of companies, the best approach to workplace computers is not to favor any particular type at all. Companies tell workers to buy and bring to work whatever they want. Typically, employers will offer a stipend to offset all or part of the cost.

The do-it-yourself movement at companies started with smartphones, but the wave has started spreading to computers, too.

But if companies give workers the money, and they buy a really cheap tablet that can¡¦t run any of a company¡¦s corporate apps, the scenario may not help the company. IT support also can be tough if an organization has a fleet of different devices.

The trend reflects worker unhappiness with being forced to use what their companies give them. More than half of workers, and roughly two-thirds of younger workers, say the computers they use at home are better than their equipment at work, according to Forrester Research surveys.

Ms. Ovide is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal¡¦s San Francisco bureau. She can be reached at shira.ovide@wsj.com. 

Document WSJO000020141027eaar000mb




World
The 10-Point.; A personal, guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal, from Editor in Chief Gerard Baker.

By Gerard Baker 
708 words
27 October 2014
02:39
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Good morning from Los Angeles,

I¡¦m here at the inaugural WSJDLive event, where executives from some of the world¡¦s top technology companies, entrepreneurs, investors, innovators and thinkers will discuss the rapidly evolving digital landscape. This evening I will be talking with Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook, and Dennis Berman, the Journal¡¦s business editor, will interview Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma. Look out for our coverage on WSJD.

Republicans are investing in additional House races¡Xfurther evidence that U.S. voters may be making a late turn away from the Democratic Party. Our story looks at fresh signs that indicate the political climate is tilting toward the GOP ahead of next week¡¦s elections. The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News/Annenberg survey found that Ebola fears and the U.S. war on Islamic State have taken a toll on both parties but hurt Democrats more. We also note that Democrats have withdrawn money recently from some GOP-held districts and redirected it largely to endangered incumbents in an effort to limit GOP gains. Meanwhile, the politics this weekend has been consumed with a spat over how to contain the deadly virus. The White House pushed back against the governors of New York, New Jersey, Illinois and other states that instituted procedures to forcibly quarantine medical workers returning from West Africa.

At first glance, a recent hatchet attack on two police officers seemed like the work of a deranged man acting alone. But to law-enforcement officials, the incident¡Xwhich took place in New York on Thursday¡Xrepresents the growing threat of self-radicalized terrorists inspired by extremist websites and social media. Our story examines the rising concern over these one-off, homegrown attacks, which are much harder to pinpoint than the more complex terror plots that have been the focus of law enforcement and intelligence agencies for more than a decade. New York Police Commissioner William Bratton said on Friday that even though police believe the man acted alone, they are treating it as a terrorist attack. ¡§There is a growing number of these individuals out there,¡¨ he said. We note that the incident occurred a day after the attack in Ottawa, Canada, in which a lone gunman shot and killed a soldier at a national war memorial before storming the Parliament building and being gunned down.

Brazil¡¦s first female president has earned herself another four more years by nurturing deep support among the country¡¦s poor. We report that Dilma Rousseff won a second term yesterday, defeating the conservative A?cio Neves in a bitter race that exposed Brazil¡¦s economic and social fault lines. The election posed questions about the depth of corruption in the country and highlighted deep divisions among Brazilians over the way to move forward. . As for the U.S., we note that the outcome likely prolongs a period of stagnant relations with Latin America¡¦s biggest economy¡Xa major player in a region where leftist leaders with ambivalent views of the U.S. have won elections in recent years. Meanwhile, we find that Ms. Rousseff now faces two pressing challenges: mending a divided electorate and reviving her nation¡¦s stagnant economy. She may seek a conciliatory tone in the coming days and try to win over Brazilian business leaders with a corporate tax break.

Some people ride bikes for exercise, while others do so to get from A to B. One new startup in Detroit plans to use pedal power to make beer. Our story looks at how two brothers intend to fit out their microbrewery with stationary bikes hooked up to produce the electricity needed to brew beer. ¡§We are trying to change the mode of biking from recreation and transportation to energy production,¡¨ Shawn Grose, a former science teacher, said. We note that he and his brother Aaron are among many entrepreneurs attempting to fuel Detroit¡¦s revival with bright ideas. But there are more efficient ways to produce energy. To see how the boys use bikes to brew beer, check out our video.

¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 

Document WSJO000020141027eaar002be




Tech
Tech¡¦s Biggest Newsmakers Are at WSJD Live; Tim Cook, Axelle Lemaire and Jack Ma Are Among the Prominent Newsmakers Who Will Discuss Tech¡¦s Possibilities and Pitfalls

By Elizabeth Dwoskin 
373 words
27 October 2014
05:27
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Technology is playing a bigger role on the world stage than ever before.

Smartphone apps and wearable computers infiltrate our most intimate spaces. Big data takes on big problems, while hacking and privacy breaches make headlines. Blue-chip tech stalwarts have faltered while start-ups achieve billion-dollar valuations.

Prominent newsmakers will illuminate the possibilities and pitfalls at WSJD Live, a new global conference that brings together powerful executives, entrepreneurs, and financiers in technology. The three-day event begins Monday evening in Laguna Beach, Calif.

Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook will discuss the future of his iconic company in an onstage interview. Jack Ma, executive chairman of Alibaba Group, will consider his company¡¦s prospects for disrupting e-commerce heavyweights like Amazon. Venture investors Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel will address the future of financing, while former Microsoft CEO turned Los Angeles Clippers owner Steve Ballmer will predict what¡¦s next.

Special sessions will be devoted to education, e-commerce and the mobile revolution.

Google¡¦s head of Life Sciences and representatives of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will present potential solutions to global health crises. Alex Karp and Kira Radinsky, the chief executives of Palantir and SalesPredict, will examine where big data is headed, while executives from Darpa and FireEye will look at challenges in cybersecurity.

The conference will feature numerous international speakers and viewpoints.

Axelle Lemaire, France¡¦s Deputy Minister for Digital Affairs, will discuss tech-related tensions in Europe with Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith.

Hugo Barra will discuss the rise of Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, while Maelle Gavet of Ozon in Russia and Sebastian Siemiatkowski of Klarna will examine e-commerce trends around the world.

Other top executives from around the globe include Chen Lifang of Huawei, Hans Vestberg of Ericsson and Telefonos de Mexico chief Carlos Slim, who will appear on stage with News Corp Chairman Rupert Murdoch.

The conference also will feature entertainment-industry guests James Cameron, director of ¡§Avatar¡¨ and ¡§Titanic,¡¨ DreamWorks Animation SKG CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg and Universal Music CEO Lucian Grainge. 

Document WSJO000020141027eaar0030g


 Credit Minute - Lost a Job While Buying a House
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 27 October 2014, 684 words, (English)
Summary: Gerri Detweiler of Credit.com has tips for what to do if you lose your job while you are buying a home.
This is what's news from the Wall Street Journal my 20/20 fine. It's estimated that half the world's population will lack access ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141028eaar00001

 Apple's Surprising Growth Driver: the Mac
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 27 October 2014, 545 words, (English)
Summary: Apple's Mac computer line sees a jump in sales and Fitbit is rolling out new gadgets.
Good evening the says the only day tech briefing from the Wall Street Journal for Monday October 27 TomTom or to sell. In the tech headlines that ...
Document MMSAJW0020141027eaar0002t

 WSJD Live Tech Conference: An Insider's Look
WSJ Live: News Hub PM, 27 October 2014, 824 words, (English)
Summary: As the WSJD Live tech conference kicks off in Laguna Beach, Calif., WSJ's Deborah Kan previews the bold-faced names attending and some key themes that are expected. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAWA0020141027eaar00003

 Amazon Pokes at Chromecast and Roku With $39 Fire TV Stick
WSJ Blogs, 07:06, 27 October 2014, 507 words, By Wilson Rothman, (English)
Amazon just introduced Fire TV Stick, a $39?video-streaming HDMI device that goes up against Google's $35 Chromecast and Roku's $50 Streaming Stick. Fire TV Stick comes with a remote, but more importantly packs a processor and memory that ...
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar004pj



BREAKINGVIEWS-Google makes U.S. trade arbiter look patently daft

563 words
27 October 2014
14:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   

(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)

By Reynolds Holding

NEW YORK, Oct 27 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Google is making America's trade arbiter look patently daft. The search giant and other technology companies say an International Trade Commission ban on imports of infringing items in digital form could disrupt the internet. Websites and cloud computing firms could also become even easier prey for patent trolls.

The ITC's remit is to block foreign "articles" that violate intellectual property rights. A recent case, though, raised the novel question of whether the term "articles" includes digital models imported electronically to help make teeth-straightening devices. The commission said in April that it does - despite decades of defining "articles" to mean only tangible goods.

The context makes the ruling understandable up to a point. Music, software, data for 3D printers and many other bits of information move over the internet. If that creates loopholes that skirt patents, just as clever legal structures lacking economic substance help avoid tax, say, there's an argument for making the workarounds illegal.

But that's not the ITC's call. As Google, eBay and others stress in a legal brief filed under the auspices of the Internet Association, allowing a minor U.S. agency to regulate internet traffic could seriously impede the global movement of data. It would also encourage so-called trolls, which own patents but make nothing, to file lawsuits demanding that the ITC block websites, file-sharing services and a host of other online businesses.

The commission is already a favorite forum for trolls, which account for about a quarter of its cases. And no wonder: The ITC decides disputes in half the time taken by federal courts and has more leeway to issue orders quashing alleged infringers. The likes of Apple and Samsung even use it as a battleground for their smartphone wars. The agency, created in 1916 to support American trade policy, holds almost a fifth of U.S. patent trials.

Thorny issues like how to protect intellectual property from online infringement are for Congress to decide - or at least courts steeped in precedent. A federal appeals court is about to weigh in on the teeth-straightening case. To paraphrase Google's corporate motto, it's the perfect opportunity to remind the ITC not to be evil. 

              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              


- Google and dozens of other internet companies on Oct. 16 filed briefs urging the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to reverse an International Trade Commission ruling that would ban imports of digital data used to create patent-infringing products.

- The ITC ruled in April that electronically transmitted information qualifies as an "article" that can be banned under the U.S. Tariff Act. The ruling came in a lawsuit filed by Align Technology against ClearCorrect Operating for allegedly infringing patents on teeth-straightening devices. ClearCorrect generated digital models in Pakistan and then transmitted them to Texas so they could be transformed into actual braces.

- Oral arguments before the appeals court have not yet been scheduled.

- Legal brief: http://bit.ly/1wuTrE8

RELATED COLUMN

iWar and Peace

- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (On Twitterhttps://twitter.com/holdingren. Editing by Richard Beales and Martin Langfield) 

Released: 2014-10-27T20:43:16.000Z

Document LBA0000020141027eaar00jws


 Facebook Pulls Ahead of J.P. Morgan
MoneyBeat, 27 October 2014, 192 words, David Reilly, (English)
Jamie Dimon won¡¦t like this. Back in 2011, J.P. Morgan Chase and its chief relinquished the title of biggest U.S. bank by market value to Wells Fargo. Now they have suffered a further indignity: J.P. Morgan¡¦s market value late last week was ...
Document BC08551020141027eaar000gz

Search Summary

 Textapple   DateIn the last 3 months   SourceReuters Newswires Or The Wall Street Journal - All sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectAll Subjects   IndustryAll Industries   RegionAll Regions   LanguageEnglish   Results Found5,361   Timestamp29 October 2014 3:19  
 Page 2 of 127     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

