 A Look at What Happens When Art and Smartphones Meet
WSJ Blogs, 18:02, 13 October 2014, 609 words, By Sara Schonhardt, (English)
Six top Indonesian artists, one challenge: create a masterpiece on a mobile phone.
They gathered last week to open ArtTech, an exhibition that marries art and technology and was hosted by the Art Department, a new pop-up space that caters to ...
Document WCWSJB0020141014eaae004xt
 Seoul Mayor Backs Same-Sex Marriage
WSJ Blogs, 22:38, 12 October 2014, 430 words, By Jeyup S. Kwaak, (English)
UPDATE: On Wednesday, Seoul city officials said Mr. Park was assuming South Korea could be the first country in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage rather than his hope that it would be.
Document WCWSJB0020141013eaad000jh
Tech
Competitive Pressures Loom over TSMC; As Mobile Devices Become Smaller, Race is On to Pack More Computing Capability into Each Chip.
By Aries Poon 
949 words
13 October 2014
08:26
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HSINCHU, Taiwan¡XAt Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., hundreds of engineers have joined a newly instituted overnight shift. Their task is to come up with advanced technology to mass produce some of the world¡¦s most intricate computing chips in the shortest time possible.
Pressure is looming over the world¡¦s biggest contract chip maker by revenue, which makes the computing brains for smartphones and other gadgets. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing neck-and-neck to pack more computing power into each chip.
Taiwan-based TSMC is preparing for an uphill battle in the coming year as rivals¡¦ more-advanced chips are set to hit the market sooner. Intel Corp., the world¡¦s biggest semiconductor maker, is entering the so-called chip foundry business¡Xmaking chips based on others¡¦ designs¡Xto expand the use of its plants and has secured clients such as Panasonic Corp. and Altera Corp. Morris Chang, TSMC¡¦s 83-year-old chairman, is also preparing for a leadership succession, trying to plan a smooth transition to his two co-chief executives.
¡§This is a war. I am not leaving anything to chance,¡¨ Mr. Chang, who founded the company in 1987, said in an interview at TSMC¡¦s headquarters, located in the south of Taipei.
TSMC was one of the first major chip makers to move to 20-nanometer chip process technology last year. A chip¡¦s transistor components and the spaces between them are measured in nanometers¡Xa billionth of a meter. The smaller the space between components, the more powerful the chip.
That transition allowed TSMC to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for a massive order from Apple Inc. for iPhones. Thanks to Apple, which is seeing strong demand for its smartphones, TSMC¡¦s revenue rose to a record US$6.88 billion in the third quarter, its second consecutive quarterly high. On Thursday, the company is expected to report a 40% jump in net profit, according to analysts¡¦ estimates, likely setting a new high.
Still, Mr. Chang concedes that both Intel and rival Samsung will be months ahead of TSMC in adopting the next-generation chip process technology. TSMC plans to mass-produce its chips with 16-nanometer technology from the third quarter next year.
By comparison, Intel, the world¡¦s biggest chip maker by revenue, has said devices using its 14-nanometer chips will be available in October, while Samsung plans to mass produce chips on the same technology by the end of this year.
¡§TSMC would lose some orders to Samsung next year because of the lag, but we hope to recoup some of the lost businesses in 2016,¡¨ he said, noting that TSMC plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC¡¦s design in the fourth quarter of next year.
To migrate to finer process technology, chip makers typically invest billions of dollars in capital expenditure. Since 2009, TSMC has spent around $10 billion every year building advanced facilities. It has also increased its portion of revenue for research and development to about 8%.
But rivals are just as aggressive. Samsung last week announced plans to invest $14.7 billion in a new facility in South Korea that is slated to begin mass production of advanced chips in the second half of 2017. And in nearby China¡Xthe world¡¦s largest consumer of semiconductors, according to McKinsey & Co.¡Xthe government has pledged up to $170 billion over the next five to 10 years to build up its domestic semiconductor industry, which analysts say could become a threat to Taiwanese chip makers longer term.
¡§The 10-nanometer [project] is a must-do for the company. It¡¦s going to be a lot more expensive than previous generations of technology, in both research and development and capital requirement,¡¨ Mr. Chang said.
The technological race isn¡¦t the only thing that is keeping Mr. Chang up at night. He is a rare top executive who is still actively running a $20 billion technology company at his age.
In November 2013, Mr. Chang promoted Mark Liu and CC Wei as co-chief executives, hoping one of them will become his successor ultimately. He handed over research, sales and client relations to them, but he is still overseeing what he calls the hardest parts of running a chip business¡Xstrategy, capital investment, pricing and capacity allocation.
Mr. Chang said the transition is going to be gradual and could take years. To begin with, he has assigned 20 to 30 major clients to his two co-CEOs, and put them in charge of major decisions involving them.
Mr. Chang¡¦s first attempt to retire in 2005 didn¡¦t succeed. Even though he named his prot?g? at the time, Rick Tsai, as his successor, the company was soon hit by rising competition and then, in 2009, by the global financial crisis. Mr. Chang was forced to return in the summer of that year and made the bold decision to quadruple TSMC¡¦s capital spending.
¡§I do care about TSMC a great deal, that¡¦s why I came back five years ago. So that¡¦s part of my succession issue. I want to pass it on to somebody who also cares.¡¨
Corrections & Amplifications
In November 2013, Mr. Chang promoted Mark Liu and CC Wei as co-chief executives. An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the month of the promotions as January of this year.
Document WSJO000020141013eaad002bd
Intel gains a new ally in China's chip wars - Beijing
By Gerry Shih, Noel Randewich and Matthew Miller   
1,067 words
13 October 2014
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
BEIJING/SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 14 (Reuters) - Intel's investment of up to $1.5 billion in two fast-growing Chinese mobile chipmakers has effectively aligned the U.S. giant with a third party - a Beijing government intent on producing a viable domestic challenger to the likes of Qualcomm and Samsung.
For more than a decade, China has targeted semiconductor design and manufacture as a major focus of its industrial policy. Activity has picked up markedly over the past year with a spate of cross-border mergers and cooperation deals.
"We've entered an inflection point where government policy has started to work - it's started to help the local semiconductor industry," said Nomura analyst Leping Huang.
The deal hashed out by Intel Corp Chief Executive Brian Krzanich over 24 hours in Beijing in early August extends Intel's beachhead in China, the biggest battleground in the smartphone industry, and boosts the company's years-long effort to catch up to leading mobile chipmaker Qualcomm Inc.
A key visit during the trip was to Yang Xueshan, the deputy chief of China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), who gave his blessing for the deal.
The agreement, unveiled on Sept. 26, gives Intel a 20 percent stake in Spreadtrum Communications and RDA Microelectronics through shares in a Tsinghua University holding company, with the aim of jointly developing and marketing smartphone chips.
China is the world's largest consumer and manufacturer of smartphones yet relies heavily on imported chips - particularly the processors that power the latest devices - made by San Diego-based Qualcomm, South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co , or MediaTek Inc of Taiwan.
China's ramped-up activity also arrives on the heels of revelations about the U.S. surveillance programme PRISM, which has prompted Beijing to undertake a slew of actions to enhance the security of its information technology industry.
For Intel, the world's leading manufacturer of chips for personal computers, the Tsinghua deal offers an additional path into the world's biggest chip market after it was slow to recognize the mobile revolution and design new processors for smartphones and tablets.
Intel spokesman John Mandeville declined to comment.
NATIONAL TARGETS
The China Semiconductor Industry Association estimates that revenue from China's chip industry reached 251 billion yuan($40.98 billion) in 2013, while domestic demand for chips amounted to 917 billion yuan, representing more than half of global semiconductor consumption.
Deng Zhonghan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and National People's Congress, said in March that China's $210 billion worth of annual chip imports exceeds the value of the country's entire yearly petroleum imports.
In June, the State Council offered the country's most comprehensive guidelines for the development of the semiconductor industry, outlining specific revenue targets for 2015 and 2020, with chip revenue set to grow at a better-than 20 percent annual clip, to reach 350 billion yuan by 2020.
An important part of Beijing's effort, analysts and industry insiders say, was consolidation of Spreadtrum and RDA, two companies formerly trading independently on Nasdaq.
The two companies were acquired a year ago for $1.7 billion and $900 million respectively by Tsinghua Unigroup, government-affiliated private equity group controlled by Tsinghua University in Beijing.
As part of its recent deal, which is expected to close early next year, Intel and Unigroup will form a new holding company that contains Spreadtrum and RDA.
Beijing wants the Unigroup companies to become competitive with Taiwan's MediaTek within five years and overtake Qualcomm within 10 years, according to a person familiar with Unigroup.
TRUE PARTNERS
Since taking over in 2013, Krzanich has aggressively positioned Intel to catch up with Qualcomm, the leading mobile chipset maker.
A central part of that strategy is China, where consumers are snapping up low-end smartphones made with low-cost chips from local suppliers like Spreadtrum and MediaTek.
Intel started investing in local operations 20 years ago, and presently operates factories across the country for manufacturing, assembling and testing microprocessors. Intel also has research and development operations in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen.
In May, Intel said it reached an agreement with Fuzhou-based Rockchip to produce chips for tablets based on Intel's architecture.
"With China, what they want is for you to be a true partner," Krzanich told reporters in September. "We go in and we partner, we build factories, we build R&D and we help local companies."
Intel's deal with Tsinghua Unigroup comes three months after Qualcomm agreed to partner with Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), China's largest foundry, to produce some of Qualcomm's smartphone chips.
As part of the agreement, Qualcomm will help SMIC implement its first high-end 28 nanometre manufacturing technology.
It also coincides with a year-long Chinese anti-monopoly investigation into Qualcomm. Critics say the probe unfairly targets foreign companies in order to help domestic companies, which Chinese authorities flatly deny.
Krzanich first discussed ways to collaborate with the Chinese firms during a visit to Tsinghua University in April, where he and Intel China head Yang Xu met Tsinghua Holding's Xu Jinhong, Unigroup's Zhou Weiguo, Spreadtrum founder Li Liyou, who is also a Tsinghua University alumnus.
He made a second trip to Beijing, the whirlwind visit in August, after which the deal fell into place.
"Tsinghua University is an important driving force for the development of national science and technology, and Tsinghua Holdings is a key part of that effort," Tsinghua Holdings Chief Executive Xu Jinhong told Reuters by email.
Xu characterized the Intel investment as "a new model for cooperation between Chinese and U.S. companies in the chip industry."
Analysts say that Intel's deal will give the Santa Clara-based company a moderate boost by gaining a partner with strong relationships with local phone manufacturers.
The deal should also give Intel enough protection of its intellectual property through licensing arrangements and other conditions, said Scott Kennedy, director of the Research Centre for Chinese Politics and Business at Indiana University.
"There's potential benefits for everyone," Kennedy said. (1 US dollar = 6.1250 Chinese yuan) (Additional reporting by Michael Martina and Beijing Newsroom; Editing by Alex Richardson and Emily Kaiser) 
Released: 2014-10-13T22:00:00.000Z
Document LBA0000020141013eaad00m9a
Markets
Asian Morning Briefing: U.S. Stocks Drop Again
1,890 words
13 October 2014
12:38
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MARKETS AT A GLANCE
(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
SNAPSHOT
U.S. stocks tumbled in volatile trading following last week¡¦s sharp selloff, reflecting investors¡¦ growing anxiety. The Treasury market was closed for a holiday. The dollar weakened on guarded Fed signals. Global oil prices dropped to a near four-year low amid OPEC discord. Gold futures rose on safe-haven buying.
OPENING CALL
With a light Asian data calendar Tuesday, Singapore¡¦s central bank may grab some attention as it releases its latest monetary-policy statement. The announcement, incidentally, comes on same day Singapore¡¦s government releases its third-quarter advance GDP estimate. Barclays expects the Monetary Authority of Singapore to keep its currency stance unchanged. Meanwhile, economists, an average, see GDP advancing at a 2.8% pace year over year in the third quarter, up from the 2.4% pace seen in the second quarter.
EQUITIES
U.S. stocks took another tumble amid volatile trading and following last week¡¦s sharp selloff, showing the growing anxiety of investors.
Energy companies were among the biggest decliners, as Brent oil futures, the international benchmark, dropped to a four-year low after some of the biggest oil exporters indicated they would maintain current production levels even as prices fall.
Among the worst performers were exploration-and-production companies and oil services companies, including EOG Resources, which fell 6.8%, and Halliburton, which declined 7.4%.
Early in the day, traders said investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of the deluge of corporate-earnings reports to be released this week. In the quarterly reports investors are looking for solid revenue figures and guidance as reassurance that the U.S. economy is on track despite global growth concerns, traders and strategists said.
¡§People want to see what the earnings picture is going to look like,¡¨ said Keith Bliss, senior vice president at brokerage Cuttone & Co.
In the absence of hard news about market fundamentals, traders said, investors instead reacted to afternoon rumors of Ebola spreading.
¡§The market hates uncertainty and this is the ultimate uncertainty. I don¡¦t know how to handicap it,¡¨ said Seth Setrakian, co-head of trading at First New York Securities. ¡§People are looking at headlines and rumors and would rather sit out the hurricane and come back and play when there¡¦s sun again.¡¨
He said the fears were weighing on shares of airline companies. United Continental Holdings dropped 7.3%, while Delta Air Lines fell 6.1%.
Dramatic price swings ruled the market last week, with stocks facing their most volatile stretch since 2011 on concerns about the pace of global growth, but traders and strategists say as this week continues corporate earnings should be the focus. Among the big companies expected to report earnings are J.P. Morgan Chase on Tuesday, Netflix on Wednesday and Google on Thursday.
Marc Doss, regional chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank, which manages $179 billion, said he is looking for positive comments in quarterly reports from U.S. financial companies to help boost confidence in the U.S. economy and lift the equities market. In addition to J.P. Morgan, Citigroup, and Wells Fargo are also expected to report earnings Tuesday before the market opens.
¡§The lifeblood of our economy is still banking and finance,¡¨ Mr. Doss said. ¡§This week¡¦s financials earnings will hopefully show that the U.S. economy is still healthy and there is still risk-taking.¡¨
Also playing into Monday¡¦s move lower is the S&P 500 index falling below its 200-day moving average, a market timing indicator.
¡§The 200-day moving average is what a lot of people use as a benchmark for general health of the market,¡¨ says Frank Longman, managing director of equity trading strategies at Brean Capital. When an index falls below this trend line, ¡§it tends to wake people up.¡¨
In corporate news, shares of CSX Corp rose 5.9% after The Wall Street Journal reported that Canadian Pacific Railway approached the railroad operator about merging.
Auto retailer Lithia Motors¡¦ shares fell 21% after it warned its third-quarter earnings will be lower than expected, in part because of higher selling costs.
In Asian trading Monday, stocks accelerated their decline, with Taiwan and the Philippines each tumbling more than 2.5%, as worries over slowing global growth weighed on shares.
FOREX
The dollar weakened against the yen, euro and most developed-market currencies in light trade after the Federal Reserve signaled a cautious approach to raising interest rates over the weekend.
Mounting concerns over global growth, which last week pummeled stock markets and pushed down bond yields, have clouded the market¡¦s timeline for the Fed¡¦s first increase in interest rates in more than eight years. Over the weekend, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said at the International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington that the impact on the U.S. economy of weaker-than-expected foreign growth could cause ¡§the Fed to remove accommodation more slowly than otherwise.¡¨
¡§The markets have been turning more cautious on the U.S. economy and the Fed, and the dollar¡¦s a little weaker from that,¡¨ said Vassili Serebriakov, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas.
Investors await September U.S. retail-sales numbers on Wednesday and the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Oct. 28-29.
In other trade, the dollar fell against the Australian and New Zealand dollars, as well as most emerging-market currencies as strong September trade data in China boosted investor confidence enough to move into assets perceived as risky.
BONDS
The cash Treasury market was closed Monday for Columbus Day.
Looking ahead, this week¡¦s run of U.S. data may give an inconclusive picture, analysts at Commerzbank said.
¡§The data are likely to remain noisy with strong data in the previous month set to correct lower (retail sales, regional Fed surveys) and previously weak data set to correct higher (housing starts, industrial output),¡¨ they said.
COMMODITIES
Global oil prices dropped to near a four-year low, with investors and traders bracing for more declines after some of the world¡¦s biggest crude exporters signaled they would keep production steady despite the slide in prices.
Discord increased over the weekend among the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, lowering traders¡¦ expectations that the cartel would collectively cut oil production to boost prices at its next meeting in November.
On Monday, Brent oil, the international benchmark fell 1.5%, to settle at $88.89 a barrel, the lowest closing price since December 2010. U.S. oil prices slipped 0.1% to $85.74, a 22-month low. The price drop has been a boon to U.S. drivers, who are seeing the lowest gasoline prices of the year, and has hammered shares of energy companies.
Many investors set low odds for oil to pull out of its swoon without unified action from OPEC. Global production has soared, fueled by increasing output from U.S. shale-oil drilling, while demand has been lackluster. Oil prices have tumbled more than 20% since mid-June.
Gold advanced to its highest level in nearly four weeks as worries about global economic growth weakened the dollar and spurred investor appetite for a haven.
TODAY¡¦S HEADLINES
Iliad Drops Plan to Acquire T-Mobile US
Iliad said it has dropped plans to acquire a controlling stake in T-Mobile US from Deutsche Telekom, ending a four-month pursuit that would have thrust the French company onto the North American market.
Fiat Chrysler to Tap Debt Markets, CEO Says
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne said the company intends to tap debt markets to raise capital to fund a costly new-model plan and may look to sell equity to ensure it has extra cash to weather an unexpected market slowdown. Shares finished off about 1% in their NYSE debut.
Apple to Roll Out iPhone 6 in 36 New Markets
Apple said it will roll out the iPhone 6 in 36 new markets, including China and South Africa, by the end of the month. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in 69 countries and territories by the end of October.
Russia Signs Business, Finance Pacts With China
Russia and China signed some 40 agreements spanning energy, finance and technology as the Kremlin looks to deepen its strategic ties with its eastern neighbor to counter isolation from the West.
Hong Kong Protesters, Opponents Clash
Student protesters faced their biggest challenge in their occupation of key areas of Hong Kong as first police and then masked men and taxi drivers tore down their barricades and tents to open a key road to traffic.
J.C. Penney Names Home Depot¡¦s Ellison CEO
J.C. Penney named Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison to become its chief executive next year to succeed Myron ¡§Mike¡¨ Ullman III, ending its long search for a new leader.
GE Finance to Acquire Milestone Aviation
General Electric agreed to pay $1.78 billion for the world¡¦s largest helicopter leasing company, tying its own big interests in the aviation and energy sectors and highlighting a fast-growing specialty finance area that has attracted interest from some of the largest names in private equity.
Canadian Pacific Approached CSX About Merger
Canadian Pacific Railway approached CSX about a combination that would unite two of North America¡¦s largest railroad operators, as the boom in North American energy reshapes the railroad industry.
Fierce Fighting Resumes in Syrian Kurdish town
Kurdish militia defending the Syrian border city of Kobani turned back an attempted suicide bombing by Islamic State forces, as street fighting edged closer to the city¡¦s heart, Kurdish city officials said.
TSMC Pressured by Samsung
Pressure is looming over Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world¡¦s biggest contract chip maker by revenue. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing to pack more computing capability into each chip.
RECENT DJ DOMINANTS
Former E*Trade Unit Lays Off Several Employees, Including CEO, Sources Say
GTCR in Talks to Buy Gorkana Group
Battery Fires on Planes Spur New Proposals
Abigail Johnson Named CEO of Fidelity Investments
GTCR in Talks to Buy Gorkana Group
TODAY¡¦S CALENDAR
(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)
2350 JPN Sep Money Stock, Broadly-defined Liquidity
2350 JPN Sep Corporate Goods Price Index
0000 SIN Singapore Monetary Policy Statement
0000 SIN Q3 Advance GDP Estimates
0030 AUS Sep NAB Business Survey
0200 NZ Sep NZ Government bonds held for non-residents
0300 SKA Aug Money Supply index L
0300 SKA Sep Economic Trends, including household loans, money supply index
0430 JPN Aug Revised Retail Sales
0630 IND Sep Monthly WPI (all commodities)
0645 FRA Aug Balance of Payments
0645 FRA Sep CPI
0800 ITA Sep CPI
0800 FRA Oct IEA Oil Market Report
0830 UK Aug ONS House Price Index
0830 UK Sep UK producer prices
0830 UK Sep UK monthly inflation figures
0900 GER Oct ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment
0900 EU Aug Industrial Production
1000 FRA Q2 OECD Quarterly Employment Situation
1130 US Sep NFIB Index of Small Business Optimism
1145 US ICSC-Goldman Sachs Chain Store Sales Index
1255 US Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index 
Document WSJO000020141013eaad005y4
Tech
European Telecoms Providers Gear Up for Connected Wireless Fight; ¡¥Internet of Things¡¦ Seen as a Prime Source of New Revenue by European Telecoms Firms
By Simon Zekaria 
773 words
13 October 2014
02:10
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Europe¡¦s largest telecommunications providers are gearing up for a battle in the lucrative race to connect cars, homes, utilities and other everyday devices to smartphones and other wireless devices.
The ¡¥Internet of Things¡¦ market is the catchall term for an electronic device which can be wirelessly connected to the Internet. For years, AT&T Inc. and rival Verizon Communications Inc.¡¦s Verizon Wireless have lead the charge for U.S. telecom operators, and have seen niche IoT services such as parcel tracking expand into global businesses.
But after seeing their core telecom revenue growth being outstripped by ¡§machine-to-machine¡¨ businesses, and with traditional revenue streams being stretched by tough market conditions, Europe¡¦s telecoms firms are seeing IoT as a prime source of new revenue.
¡§We are one of the few parts of the organization that grows,¡¨ says Telef?nica SA¡¦s global IoT chief Surya Mendon?a.
According to network systems firm Cisco, the IoT market is expected to grow into a $19 trillion market over the next 10 years, as IoT networks for sectors such as traffic systems, shipping, rail freight and industrial manufacturing take shape. Meanwhile, the number of IoT-focused developers will leap to 4 million in 2020 from 300,000 this year, says telecom group Interoute.
And it¡¦s at this junction that the telecom companies are skirmishing with technology giants like ARM Holdings PLC, Samsung Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Both telecom and technology are levering ¡§hardware, the ubiquitous nature of connectivity, big data and analysis¡¨ in a face-off to grab IoT¡¦s expanding revenues, says Chris Gray, analyst at U.S. software firm Red Hat Inc.
Google, Apple and Samsung have made recent inroads into homes. This year, Google bought Nest Labs, Apple is launching HomeKit and Samsung acquired SmartThings to allow users to control home settings and sync devices.
Telecoms have significant skin in the game. IoT technology works on sensors and SIM cards inside devices linked to data servers over cellular networks. Data is sent over radio waves via the SIM, sometimes via another radio transmitter. External software applications like smartphone apps pick up the signals and use the data to control devices-like cars telling garages to open as they approach a home.
The need for comprehensive mobile network coverage to power the connections between devices means the telecom companies, which are investing billions of dollars to upgrade mobile infrastructure, are in prime position.
For Telef?nica, Vodafone Group PLC, Orange SA and Deutsche Telekom AG, the importance of not being left behind in the race for ¡§machine-to-machine¡¨ business means deal-making for Internet-enabled connected services and devices is stepping up, analysts say.
Connected cars is one of the most active sectors for both intra-telco competition as well as competition with tech giants.
Telef?nica has a partnership with electric car maker Tesla in major European markets and connects General Motors vehicles through the car group¡¦s communications unit OnStar. Orange also works with Tesla, in France, alongside other deals with Peugeot and Renault. Orange is also launching smartphone service Orange Drive next year, which gives users voice-activated radio controls and tips on efficient driving.
Vodafone has signed up with Germany¡¦s BMW and, in August, bought Italian car services firm Cobra Automotive. Deutsche Telekom also partners with BMW, and last Friday joined China Mobile, the world¡¦s largest mobile provider, in a connected cars venture.
Smart homes are another battleground. Last month, Telef?nica launched a trial of AT&T¡¦s home security, automation and energy management platform in Europe. Deutsche Telekom has built on the 2011 launch of smart home platform Quivicon to control appliances through partners like Samsung and wireless speaker maker Sonos.
Orange¡Xnot to be left behind by the offerings of Google, Apple, and Samsung¡Xwill launch Homelive, incorporating applications with weather monitors, thermostats and movement detectors, later this month.
Telecoms are also eyeing utilities, hoping to capitalize on the market as energy regulation tightens. Last year, Telef?nica struck a 15-year deal worth ?1.5 billion to connect smart meters in the U.K., while Vodafone is working with energy supplier Npower to install smart meters in the country.
Orange is working with France¡¦s EDF to monitor electricity consumption, worked by a sensor inserted into the meter. The service will launch in France next year. And Deutsche Telekom also partners with energy and technology firms for meter reading services in Germany.
Document WSJO000020141013eaad002ut
 The Big Mystery: What¡¦s Big Data Really Worth?
CFO Report, 11:28, 13 October 2014, 1224 words, By Vipal Monga, (English)
What groceries you buy, what?Facebook?posts you ¡§like¡¨ and how you use GPS in your car: Companies are building their entire businesses around the collection and sale of such data.
Document WCCFO00020141013eaad0002t
DIARY - Italy to November 30
2,785 words
13 October 2014
05:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
The inclusion of diary items does not necessarily mean that Reuters will file a story based on the event.
TUESDAY OCTOBER 14
Rome, Italian European Presidency, "Dialogue on Transatlantic Partnership for Commerce and Investments", with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Deputy Economic Development Minister Carlo Calenda, EU Commissioner for Commerce Karel De Gucht (1300 GMT).
Rome, Italian European Presidency, ministerial meeting on "Italy-Africa, working together for a sustainable energy future" ends. Deputy Economic Develompent Minister Claudio De Vincenti, EU Commissioner for Development Andris Piebalgs deliver opening addresses; round-table discussion on energy with Environment Minister Gian Luca Galletti, Enel CEO Francesco Starace, Terna CEO Matteo Del Fante, GE Italian unit Chairman and CEO Sandro De Poli (0730 GMT).
Rome, Italian European Presidency, human rights meeting ends. Italian Interior Minister Angelino Alfano attends (0700 GMT).
ISTAT releases September final CPI and HICP data (0800 GMT); August industrial product import prices (0900 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases August data on public finances, state borrowing and debt.
Rome, Senate discussion to update long-term economic and fiscal plan (1430 GMT).
Rome, Finmeccanica Chairman Giovanni De Gennaro and CEO Mauro Moretti informally speak before Senate Industry Committee (1100 GMT).
Rome, Poste Italiane CEO Francesco Caio speaks before Chamber of Deputies Transport Committee (1130 GMT) and before Senate Public Works Committee (1300 GMT).
Rome, Welfare institute INPS presents 2013 CSR annual report with President Pietro Iocca, extraordinary Commissioner Tiziano Treu, Director General Mauro Nori; Labour Minister Giuliano Poletti delivers closing address (0800 GMT).
Rome, conference on utilities and growth, with state-controlled financing agency Cassa Depositi e Prestiti President Franco Bassanini, Goldman Sachs Managing Director Matteo Botto Poala, A2A CEO Valerio Camerano, Ascopiave Director General Roberto Gumirato, Acea CEO Alberto Irace, Iren Chairman Francesco Profumo, Fondo Strategico Italiano CEO Maurizio Tamagnini, Deputy Economic Development Minister Claudio De Vincenti, Deputy Economy Minister Enrico Morando; Cabinet Undersecretary Graziano Delrio delivers closing address (0700 GMT).
Rome, state broadcaster RAI holds conference on public service with President Anna Maria Tarantola (0740 GMT).
Milan, Italian luxury goods companies association Altagamma presents report on results and forecasts for luxury goods global market (0730 GMT).
Milan, JP Morgan Asset Management holds Italian stage of European tour on emerging markets.
Industrial Stars of Italy holds annual general meeting.
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 15
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Trade ministers' informal meeting chaired by Deputy Economic Development Minister Carlo Calenda; followed by news conference at 1345 GMT.
ISTAT releases Q2 GDP data (0800 GMT); Q2 deficit/GDP ratio data (0900 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases 'Quarterly Economic Bullettin'.
Rome, Cabinet expected to meet also on 'Stability Law'.
Rome, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano chairs meeting of Defence Superior Council (0830 GMT).
Rome, Enel CEO Francesco Starace (1200 GMT) and Europe's largest steel plant special administrator Piero Gnudi (1800 GMT) informally speak before Senate Industry Committee.
Rome, Chamber of Deputies Speaker Laura Boldrini meets Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang (0925 GMT).
Milan, start of two-day "Asia-Europe Business Forum"; ends on Oct. 16. Expected attendees include Salini Impregilo Chairman Gianfelice Rocca, employers' association Confindustria President Giorgio Squinzi, Eni President Emma Marcegaglia, Intesa Sanpaolo CEO Carlo Messina, Lukoil Vice President Thomas Mueller, Samsung Electronics Europe President Sang Woo Kim (1200 GMT).
Conference on "Digital and Italy" with Poste Italiane CEO Francesco Caio, UniCredit Deputy General Manager Paolo Fiorentino, Telecom Italia Chairman Giuseppe Recchi (1600 GMT).
Milan, ABI-banking association holds Executive Committee meeting (0800 GMT).
Milan, UniCredit Deputy Director General Paolo Fiorentino attends news conference to present agreement between UniCredit and Epson Meteo (1300 GMT).
THURSDAY OCTOBER 16
ISTAT releases August foreign trade data (0800 GMT).
Reuters releases Q3 Italian economy poll (1220 GMT).
Milan, Italian European Presidency, first of two-day '10th ASEM Summit of Heads of State and Government' on "Responsible Partnership for Sustainable Growth and Security" chaired by Prime Minister Matteo Renzi; ends on Oct 17.
Milan, "Asia-Europe Business Forum" ends. Expected attendees include Expo 2015 President Diana Bracco, Finmeccanica CEO Mauro Moretti, Foreign Affairs Minister Federica Mogherini, employers' association Confindustria Giorgio Squinzi, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Eni President Emma Marcegaglia (0715 GMT).
Milan, "China-Italy Innovation Forum", with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang, Lombardy Region Governor Roberto Maroni, Education Minister Stefania Giannini (0600 GMT).
Milan, StrategyCouncil holds conference on innovation, entrepreneurship, employment; expected attendees include Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Economic Development Minister Federica Guidi, Poste Italiane CEO Francesco Caio, Italian luxury goods companies association Altagamma President Andrea Illy, UBI Banca CEO Victor Massiah, Prada Chairman Carlo Mazzi, Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena Chairman Alessandro Profumo, Telecom Italia Chairman Giuseppe Recchi, SKY Italian unit CEO Andrea Zappia (0700 GMT).
BB Biotech holds board meeting on Q3 results.
UniCredit CRDI.MI> holds board meeting on bids for its bad laons unit UniCredit Credit Management Bank (UCCMB).
FRIDAY OCTOBER 17
Milan, Italian European Presidency, '10th ASEM Summit of Heads of State and Government' on "Responsible Partnership for Sustainable Growth and Security" ends.
Bologna, think-tank Prometeia presents Italian and global economic forecasts; Italy's Head of Debt Management Office Maria Cannata gives speech (1045 GMT).
Milan, new conference to present art exhibition on "Van Gogh. The man and the earth" with Unipol Chairman Pierluigi Stefanini (1000 GMT).
Beni Stabili capital increase ends (started on Sept. 29).
IGD capital increase ends (started on Sept. 29).
SATURDAY OCTOBER 18
Bologna, Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco holds news conference (0930 GMT).
Danieli & C. presents FY results.
MONDAY OCTOBER 20
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Sport ministers' informal meeting starts; ends on Oct. 21.
ISTAT releases August industry orders and sales (0800 GMT).
Milan, ISPI-Italian Institute for Studies on International Politics holds conference on "Is Japan (really) back? Japanese Politics, Economy and Security to the Test", with Fincantieri Chairman Vincenzo Petrone (1230 GMT).
TUESDAY OCTOBER 21
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Sport ministers' informal meeting ends.
Sogefi holds board meeting on Q3 results.
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 22
Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso holds board meeting on Q3 results.
THURSDAY OCTOBER 23
ISTAT releases preliminary September non-UE trada flash data (0800 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of CTZ and BTPei bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 28.
Amplifon holds board meeting on Q3 results.
Fedrigoni, paper maker company IPO ends.
Finmeccanica expected to hold board meeting.
FRIDAY OCTOBER 24
Fitch is due to revise its ratings on Italy.
ISTAT releases August retail sales data (0800 GMT); September wage inflation data (0900 GMT); October consumer confidence data (1000 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 29.
International banking conference on "Structural Changes in the Banking Sector", Intesa Sanpaolo CFO Stefano Del Punta and ECB board member Peter Praet deliver opening addresses (0800 GMT).
Juventus Football Club holds annual general meeting (0830 GMT).
Board meeting on Q3 results: Autostrade Meridionali , Piaggio.
SATURDAY OCTOBER 25
Italy, trade union CGIL expected to call national demonstration against the economic policy of the government.
SUNDAY OCTOBER 26
ITALY, EUROPE- Back to solar time by one hour, new time GMT +1.
MONDAY OCTOBER 27
Treasury announces sale of BTP and CCTeu bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 30.
Rome, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi meets trade unions on labour reform.
A.S. Roma holds annual and extraordinary shareholders' meeting (1400 GMT).
Mediobanca holds board meeting on Q1 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: CIR (0900 GMT), Cofide (1430 GMT).
TUESDAY OCTOBER 28
ISTAT releases October business confidence data (0900 GMT).
Assogestioni expected to release September fund flows data.
Treasury sells CTZ and BTPei bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Rome, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano to testify in mafia case (1200 GMT).
Milan, start of two-day annual conference on insurance organised by Il Sole 24 Ore, with insurers' association ANIA President Aldo Minucci, Unipol CEO Carlo Cimbri, Cattolica Assicurazioni CEO Giovan Battista Mazzucchelli (1230 GMT).
Mediobanca holds conference call on Q1 results (0730 GMT) and annual general meeting (1000 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Banca Ifis, Recordati , Saipem followed by conference call.
Annual general meetings: Danieli & C. (1300 GMT), Digital Bros, S.S. Lazio (1400 GMT).
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 29
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Milan, end of two-day annual conference on insurance organised by Il Sole 24 Ore, with Unipol Director General Franco Ellena (0730 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Carraro (1430 GMT), ENI (press release on Oct. 30), FCA-Fiat followed by conference call, Indesit followed by conference call, Luxottica followed by conference call.
STMicrolectronics releases Q3 results before European bourses open; followed by conference call (0830 GMT).
THURSDAY OCTOBER 30
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Tourism ministers' informal meeting.
Reuters expected to release September asset allocation poll (1200 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP and CCTeu bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
ENI releases Q3 results (before Bourse opening); followed by conference call (afternoon).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Ansaldo STS, CNH Industrial followed by conference call, Reno De Medici , Snam (press release on Oct. 31), Sorin .
FRIDAY OCTOBER 31
ISTAT releases monthly update on GDP growth; September unemployment data (0900 GMT); October flash CPI and HICP data (1000 GMT); September producer prices (1100 GMT).
Bourse After Hours market closed.
Basic Net holds board meeting on Q3 results.
Fintel Energia Group capital increase ends.
Snam releases Q3 results (before Bourse opening); followed by conference call (afternoon).
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 1
Effective today new composition of European Commission appointed by President Jean-Claude Juncker on Sept. 10 and later approved by the European Parliament.
MONDAY NOVEMBER 3
Markit/ADACI releases October PMI manufacturing (0845 GMT).
ISTAT releases 2014-2016 Italian economy perspectives data (0900 GMT).
Transport Ministry releases October car sales (1700 GMT).
October state sector borrowing requirement data.
SAT holds ordinary shareholders' meeting (1000 GMT).
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 4
Milan Stock Exchange presents new companies listed on ELITE segment (0900 GMT).
Fullsix holds extraordinary shareholders' meeting (1000 GMT).
Board meeting on Q3 results: Banca Generali followed by conference call, Centrale Latte Torino, Space, Telecom Italia Media.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 5
Markit/ADACI releases October service PMI data (0845 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Assicurazioni Generali (press release on Nov. 6), EI Towers, Finmeccanica, Moleskine, Prelios, Txt e-solutions, Yoox followed by conference call.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 6
Assicurazioni Generali releases Q3 results.
Finmeccanica holds conference call Q3 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: A2A, Acque Potabili , Azimut, Be, Dea Capital, Pirelli & C., Prysmian followed by conference call, Safilo Group followed by conference call, Snai , Telecom Italia.
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 7
Bank of Italy releases October data on European Central Bank funding to Italian banks.
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 12.
Bagnoli, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi visits the town.
Board meetings on Q3 results: Acsm-Agam, Atlantia , Banco Sardegna, Bonifiche Ferraresi , Buzzi Unicem, Datalogic, Enel Green Power followed by conference call, FinecoBank , Italcementi, Parmalat, Retelit , Tesmec, Zignago Vetro (0900 GMT).
MONDAY NOVEMBER 10
ISTAT releases September industrial output data (0900 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases September data on bank deposits and September statistics on Italian government bond holdings at Italy-based banks.
Treasury announces sale of BTP bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 13.
Danieli & C. trades ex-dividend: 0.3000 euro per ordinary share and 0.3207 per savings share.
Italcementi holds conference call on Q3 results.
Sabaf trades ex-dividend 1.00 euro per share.
Board meetings on Q3 results: Banca Popolare Spoleto , Cementir, Fiera Milano, Fincantieri followed by conference call, Gtech followed by conference call, Molmed, Rosss .
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 11
Board meeting on Q3 results: Aeffe, Banca Carige , Banca Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria e del Lazio, Banca Popolare di Milano, Banco Popolare, Brunello Cucinelli followed by conference call, Caltagirone Editore , Credito Emiliano, Credito Valtellinese , d'Amico International Shipping followed by conference call, Enel followed by conference call, Exprivia, First Capital (1530 GMT), Interpump Group, Intesa Sanpaolo followed by conference call (1400 GMT), M&C, Mediaset (1500 GMT) followed by conference call (1700 GMT), Moncler followed by conference call, Nova Re, Primi Sui Motori (also on 2014 outlook), Sabaf followed by conference call (1400 GMT), Seat Pagine Gialle, UBI Banca, UniCredit.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 12
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Milan, "Private Equity Italian Forum" Italian investment fund 'Fondo Italiano di Investimento' CEO Gabriele Cappellini (0840 GMT); Moleskine CEO Arrigo Berni (1030 GMT); European Investment Fund Director John Holloway (1050 GMT).
Banca Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna holds conference call on Q3 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Acea, Aedes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore followed by conference call, Astaldi, Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Banca Popolare di Sondrio, Beni Stabili, Cad It, Campari Group followed by conference call, Cattolica Assicurazioni, Cerved followed by conference call, Cobra, Conafi Prestit? , Dada, Edison, ERG, ErgyCapital, Falck Renewables, Gabetti Property Solutions, Gefran, Hera, IGD, Iren, Isagro (1500 GMT), LVenture Group, Maire Tecnimont, Prima Industrie, Ratti, Salini Impregilo , Tamburi Investment Partners, TAS, Terna followed by conference call, Tod's, Valsoia, Vianini Industria, Vianini Lavori .
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 13
ISTAT releases October final CPI and HICP data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Board meetings on Q1 results: Digital Bros, Juventus.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Acotel, Aeroporto di Firenze, Alba Private, Alerion CleanPower , Ambienthesis (1330 GMT), Arc Real Estate , Ascopiave, Autogrill followed by conference call, Banco di Desio e della Brianza, Bastogi, Best Union, Biancamano, Brembo (0800 GMT), Brioschi, Cairo Communication, Caltagirone, Class Editori , Compagnia Immobiliare Azionaria, Elica followed by conference call, Esprinet, Eukedos , Fillsix, Gas Plus followed by conference call, Geox (press release and conference call at 1630 GMT), Immsi, Intek Group, Kinexia, K.R.Energy, La Doria, Landi Renzo, Mediacontech, Mediolanum (0930 GMT) followed by conference call, Mid industry Capital , Pininfarina, RCS MediaGroup, Reply, Saes Getters, Salvatore Ferragamo followed by conference call, Saras followed by conference call (afternoon), SAT, SAVE, Servizi Italia, Sol, Tiscali (1400 GMT), Trevi Group, Unipol, UnipolSai, Vittoria Assicurazioni, Zucchi.
Conference call on Q3 results: ERG, Isagro (0930 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 14
ISTAT releases flash preliminary Q3 GDP data (0900 GMT); September industrial product import prices (1000 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases September data on public finances, state borrowing and debt.
Danieli & C. holds board meeting on Q1 results.
IKF holds board meeting on FY results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Anima, Banca Finnat , B&C Speakers, Beghelli, Bialetti , Biesse, Boero Bartolomeo, Bolzoni , Caleffi (1330 GMT), Cembre, Ciccolella, Csp International (0800 GMT), DiaSorin, Eems, El.En., Emak , Enervit, Engineering, Eurotech , Exor, Fidia (0900 GMT), Gala , Gruppo Ceramiche Ricchetti, Gruppo MutuiOnline, IMA, Irce, Italmobiliare, IT WAY, IVS Group, Marr, Mondo TV, Nice followed by conference call, Noemalife, Olidata, PanariaGroup, Poligrafica San Faustino, Risanamento, Stefanel, World Duty Free Group followed by conference call.
Conference calls on Q3 results: Iren, Trevi Group (1500 GMT).
MONDAY NOVEMBER 17
ISTAT releases September foreign trade data (0900 GMT).
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 18
Rome, "FT Italy Summit" with Public Administration Minister Maria Anna Madia, Brunello Cucinelli Chairman Brunello Cucinelli, Labour Minister Giuliano Poletti.
Softec holds board meetingon Q3 results.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 19
Assicurazioni Generali holds "Investor Day" to update strategy.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 20
ISTAT releases September industry orders and sales (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of CTZ and BTPei bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 25.
Milan, ratings company DBRS holds "DBRS Day in Italy" (0630 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 21
ISTAT releases October wage inflation data (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 26.
MONDAY NOVEMBER 24
ISTAT releases preliminary October non-UE trada flash data (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BTP and CCTeu bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 27.
Mediobanca trades ex-dividend of 0.15 euro per share.
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 25
ISTAT releases September retail sales data (0900 GMT).
Assogestioni expected to release October fund flows data.
Treasury sells CTZ and BTPei bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Piquadro holds board meeting on Q1 results.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 26
ISTAT releases November consumer confidence data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 27
ISTAT releases November business confidence data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP and CCTeu bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Reuters expected to release October asset allocation poll (1200 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 28
ISTAT releases October an Q3 unemployment data (0900 GMT); November flash CPI and HICP data (1000 GMT); October producer prices (1100 GMT).
Florence, conference on "Italian financial brokerage" with Intesa Sanpaolo Management Board Chairman Gian Maria Gros-Pietro (0830 GMT). 
Released: 2014-10-13T11:36:59.000Z
Document LBA0000020141013eaad008xu
 Xiaomi Hires Former Google Executive to Lead India Product Team
WSJ Blogs, 05:58, 13 October 2014, 336 words, By R. Jai Krishna and Newley Purnell, (English)
Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone maker that has overtaken Apple and Samsung Electronics in the world¡¦s biggest smartphone market, has hired another former Google executive-¡Vthis time to lead its products team in India.
Document WCWSJB0020141013eaad0020a
EM ASIA FX-Singapore dollar leads Asia FX gains on China data, Fed comments
657 words
13 October 2014
00:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Singapore likely to keep tight monetary policy
    * Won up on China data, stop-loss dollar selling
 (Adds text, updates prices)
    By Jongwoo Cheon
    SINGAPORE, Oct 13 (Reuters) - The Singapore dollar led gains
among emerging Asian currencies on Monday, as solid China trade
data eased concerns over a slowing global economy and the U.S.
dollar slid on dovish comments from Federal Reserve officials.
    Singapore's dollar advanced as the central bank is
expected to maintain its tight monetary policy on Tuesday.
 
    China's exports in September grew more than market
expectations while imports surprisingly expanded, alleviating
worries about deteriorating domestic demand in the world's
second-largest economy. 
    The greenback slid against a basket of six-major
currencies after several Fed officials on Friday said a sluggish
global economy could delay U.S. interest rate hikes if the
slowdown is serious enough. 
    Still, Asian shares fell to seven-month lows, indicating
investors stayed concerned over faltering global growth. That
will keep putting pressure on regional currencies, analysts
said.
    "The near-term bias for Asian currencies is likely to remain
skewed towards further weakness," said Jonathan Cavenagh, senior
FX strategist with Westpac in a client note.
    "Global equity market sentiment has softened noticeably and
this creates the risks of further equity market outflows from
the region." 
    
    SINGAPORE DOLLAR
    The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) will likely stick
to its stance of allowing a "moderate and gradual" appreciation
of the Singapore dollar as core inflation has picked up, a
Reuters poll showed last week. 
    That comes even as the city-state's economy has slowed on a
sluggish manufacturing sector and weak exports.
    "They still have adequate room to allow the index to drift
into the weak end of the band without officially changing their
stance," said Emmanuel Ng, a foreign exchange strategist for
OCBC Bank in Singapore, referring to the Singapore dollar
nominal effective exchange rate.
    The MAS is set to announce its semi-annual policy decision
at 8 a.m. (0000 GMT) on Tuesday.
    
    WON
    The won started local trade weaker, dampened by concerns
over a slowing global economy.
    The South Korean unit turned firmer on stop-loss dollar
selling and after solid China trade data eased worries over the
global economic outlook. China is South Korea's top overseas
market.
    Samsung Heavy Industries Co LTD said it had won
a 664 billion won ($622.1 million) ship order, prompting
expectations of more won demand. 
    "We may see further stop-loss dollar offers, so the won may
head to 1,065," said a foreign bank trader in Seoul.
    
    CURRENCIES VS U.S. DOLLAR
    Change on the day at 0440 GMT
  Currency    Latest bid   Previous day    Pct Move
  Japan yen       107.19         107.65       +0.43
  Sing dlr        1.2713         1.2761       +0.38
  Taiwan dlr      30.393         30.430       +0.12
  Korean won     1067.20        1070.50       +0.31
  Baht             32.40          32.46       +0.16
  Peso             44.77          44.77       +0.01
  Rupiah        12200.00       12215.00       +0.12
  Rupee            61.23          61.35       +0.20
  Ringgit         3.2580         3.2570       -0.03
  Yuan            6.1252         6.1309       +0.09
 
  Change so far in 2014
  Currency    Latest bid  End prev year    Pct Move
  Japan yen       107.19         105.28       -1.79
  Sing dlr        1.2713         1.2632       -0.64
  Taiwan dlr      30.393         29.950       -1.46
  Korean won     1067.20        1055.40       -1.11
  Baht             32.40          32.86       +1.41
  Peso             44.77          44.40       -0.83
  Rupiah        12200.00       12160.00       -0.33
  Rupee            61.23          61.80       +0.93
  Ringgit         3.2580         3.2755       +0.54
  Yuan            6.1252         6.0539       -1.16
  ($1= 1,067.3 won)
 (Additional reporting by Yena Park in SEOUL; Editing by
Jacqueline Wong)
Released: 2014-10-13T06:10:23.000Z
Document LBA0000020141013eaad0045g
BRIEF-Samsung Heavy wins $620 mln order to build 3 LNG carriers
97 words
12 October 2014
19:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 13 (Reuters) - Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd
 :
    * Says wins 664 billion won ($620 million) order to build
three LNG carriers from an unnamed firm based in Asia
    * The carriers are scheduled to transfer shale gas exports
from the U.S. to Asia 
    * Expects contract will be completed by August 2018
Source text in Korean: (http://bit.ly/1z2CmH4)
Further company coverage: 
($1 = 1,071.0000 Korean won)
 (Reporting By Kahyun Yang in Seoul; Editing by Anand Basu)
Released: 2014-10-13T01:36:11.000Z
Document LBA0000020141013eaad000gy
Chaebol Style: Oversight Scarce in Hyundai Deal
By In-Soo Nam   
997 words
13 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
When Hyundai Motor Co.'s board convened last month to discuss the company's planned land purchase in Seoul, its five independent directors sought details.
"Does Hyundai need the land for sure? Why is the company going to buy it in an expensive Gangnam area?" an outside director said he asked at the meeting. "Is there no other choice?"
Executives replied that Hyundai needed to house about 30 of its affiliates under one roof to improve efficiency. The conglomerate also would build an automobile theme park at the new location to enhance its brand image, they said.
One thing they didn't provide: the price.
The $10 billion cost, three times the property's assessed value, was disclosed only after the nine-member board unanimously endorsed the plan. The figure was made public after the deal was done.
"Company executives were desperate to persuade outside directors to approve it at the board meeting. For Hyundai, the land wasn't just an investment, it was something the company couldn't afford to lose," said an independent director who attended the meeting. "In that case, price didn't matter."
The deal was the latest example of how South Korea's conglomerates, known as chaebols, are raising the ire of shareholder activists seeking to change corporate decision making.
Investors have long complained about a lack of transparency and outside oversight at many chaebols, which generally are controlled by founding families through complex cross-shareholdings. Top managers typically wield power in major corporate decisions, such as capital spending, despite having relatively small shareholdings in key operations.
After Hyundai's purchase was announced, angry investors who thought the deal was a waste of money dumped the company's stock. Shares of Hyundai and the two affiliates that joined the purchase, Kia Motors Corp. and Hyundai Mobis Co., each fell more than 10% in a few days after the announcement. The declines reduced their combined market value by more than the amount paid for the land.
"This is a classic example of Korea's weak corporate governance and poor oversight by outside directors. Hyundai wanted the land and directors rubber-stamped it," said Kim Sang-jo, a professor at Hansung University and the executive director of Solidarity for Economic Reform, a group that advocates for improved corporate governance. The group, which has an undisclosed minority stake in each of the three companies, obtained the minutes of their board meetings.
According to the minutes, Hyundai Chairman Chung Mong-koo wasn't at the meeting, Mr. Kim said. Mr. Chung had privately pushed for the land purchase for years but never took the matter to the board for discussion, an outside director said. It was common for Mr. Chung to skip board meetings, some outside directors said.
"It only took 30 minutes for the board to discuss and approve such a big deal. That means the meeting was just a formality," Mr. Kim said. Board meetings usually last about two hours, one of the outside directors said.
Hyundai declined to comment on the decision-making process or Mr. Chung's activity, and he wasn't available for comment.
Mr. Kim said Hyundai's process reflected typical practice at chaebols.
Independent directors, usually scholars, lawyers and former government officials, tend to go along with what company owners want because the directors are chosen by committees composed of the businesses' family members and company executives, Mr. Kim said. He proposes a system in which shareholders can evaluate the performance of outside directors and hold them responsible for decisions that lead to stock declines.
Chaebols have played a significant role in South Korea's economy, which is Asia's fourth-largest. Wanting to rebuild the nation quickly after the 1950-'53 Korean War, the government drew up blueprints for industrial expansion and offered generous favors, such as loan guarantees to big businesses, which helped fuel rapid growth.
Nam Sung-il, a professor of economics at Sogang University, said family-run business structures have merits, such as quick decision making on tough issues and long-term investments by owners that can see a company through crises.
But weak corporate governance caused the nation to become one of the most vulnerable to the 1997-'98 Asian financial crisis, observers said. Daewoo group and 10 other businesses collapsed between 1997 and 1999. The government in 1998 ordered companies to strengthen outside oversight by filling almost half of the board seats with outsiders, adopting a model from U.S. and Europe after an outcry that inappropriate oversight by directors was partly responsible for the fallout.
Korea's corporate-governance scores slipped the most among 944 surveyed companies because of the rise in intergroup transactions and poor disclosure, according to a recent report by brokerage firm CLSA and the Asian Corporate Governance Association.
While Korean companies such as Hyundai and Samsung Electronics Co. have become household names world-wide, their stocks still trade at much lower multiples than those of their peers from elsewhere. The benchmark Korea Composite Stock Price Index traded at 10.9 times its price-to-earnings multiple last year, compared with 17.4 for the U.S., 14.7 for Japan and 15.8 for Hong Kong, according to Korea Stock Exchange.
In an effort to rein in chaebol influence, President Park Geun-hye's government has offered tax incentives to conglomerates that simplify their ownership. The government in July banned the creation of new cross-shareholdings, although it didn't address existing structures.
"In the first few months of President Park's administration, she appeared to take a stance against chaebols under the name of economic democratization, but there have been no significant changes in corporate structures at big conglomerates," said Chae Yi-bae, a researcher at the Center for Good Corporate Governance. "Frankly, I don't remember any governments in the past that have succeeded in reforming chaebols."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141012eaad00005
 A Bluetooth-Enabled Cure for Slouching at Work?
WSJ Blogs, 16:00, 12 October 2014, 377 words, By Karl Friedhoff, (English)
Your backside is a treasure trove of untapped data. So says one Korean tech company pushing a new device that promises to tackle the woes of bad sitting habits.
Document WCWSJB0020141013eaad0002t
Samsung shares could gain as much as 50 percent -Barron's
185 words
12 October 2014
16:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Samsung Electronics  appear cheap and could gain as much as 50 percent, Barron's financial newspaper said in its latest edition.               
Samsung's stock has fallen 19 percent this year due to plunging profits in its mobile phone business and it hit a 52-week low on Friday after a warning about its third-quarter profit earlier in the week.               
But there appears to be little downside to owning a piece of the world's largest maker of handsets, as its memory chip business could generate an operating profit of $10 billion next year, compared with $8 billion this year, Barron's said in its Oct. 13 issue. Net cash and investments now equal 40 percent of Samsung's market value, it added.               
The company is valued at 50 percent of its annual sales based on its enterprise value - equity market value less net cash and investments. Apple Inc, by comparison, is valued at 2.5 times its sales, the newspaper said.               
Released: 2014-10-12T22:32:28.000Z
Document LBA0000020141012eaac00lgb
 Samsung shares could gain as much as 50 percent -Barron's
Reuters, 16:32, 12 October 2014, 330 words, Sun Oct, (English)
Oct 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Samsung Electronics appear cheap and could gain as much as 50 percent, Barron's financial newspaper said in its latest edition.
Document WCLBA00020141012eaac003pd
 Tesla's Automated Driving Is In Production
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 10 October 2014, 965 words, (English)
Summary: Tesla debuts its automated driving system...Amazon prepares its first brick-&-mortar store...marketers are scanning your selfies...and Google has plans for a supersized smartphone. WSJ's Bill Fantini has those stories and more.
Document MMSAJW0020141010eaaa00001
 South Korea Booted Out Chinese Student for ¡¥Aiding North Korea¡¦
WSJ Blogs, 04:00, 10 October 2014, 393 words, By Jeyup S. Kwaak, (English)
South Korea¡¦s Justice Ministry said Friday it deported a Chinese student for ¡§aiding North Korea¡¨ earlier this year, a rare instance of a foreign national facing action for violating Seoul¡¦s controversial National Security Law.
Document WCWSJB0020141010eaaa001ba
 EXO Member Luhan Files Lawsuit to Leave K-Pop Group
WSJ Blogs, 04:43, 10 October 2014, 412 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
South Korean K-pop label SM Entertainment Co. is going through a rough patch.
On Friday, a Chinese member of the label¡¦s boyband EXO filed a lawsuit against SM in a bid to nullify his contract with the company, according to the Seoul Central ...
Document WCWSJB0020141010eaaa001gu
 CMO Today: Beware the Cord Shavers
WSJ Blogs, 07:49, 10 October 2014, 1008 words, By Steven Perlberg, (English)
Here¡¦s your morning roundup of the biggest marketing, advertising and media industry news and happenings. Send tips, suggestions and complaints to?steven.perlberg@wsj.com
Document WCWSJB0020141010eaaa002e6
Business
Alcatel Looks to Hone Future Technologies in Japan
By Eric Pfanner 
566 words
10 October 2014
02:33
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TOKYO¡XAlcatel-Lucent SA, one of the world¡¦s largest providers of telecommunications network equipment, is betting on Japan¡¦s surging appetite for the latest smartphone infrastructure to help it develop the technology the global market will need in the future.
Michel Combes, chief executive of the French-American company, this week opened a new research site in Tokyo that will work on development of software and cloud computing services for telecom networks. Those are the technologies carriers are embracing as they try to ease the load on overburdened hardware.
The facility is the first of its kind for Alcatel-Lucent, which has been focusing on potential growth areas as it accelerates a restructuring under Mr. Combes, who took over about a year and a half ago. The initial investment is small¡X¡§a few million euros,¡¨ according to Mr. Combes¡Xbut he described it as a vote of confidence in the future of the Japanese telecommunications business.
¡§It is obvious that Japan is extremely important to us,¡¨ Mr. Combes said. ¡§This country is still extremely fast in terms of innovation in the high-tech industry,¡¨ he added, citing the rapid embrace of high-speed Long-Term Evolution, or LTE, technology by the country¡¦s major mobile operators.
Yet the travails of the country¡¦s electronics industry, which has failed to produce a smartphone to compete with Apple Inc.¡¦s iPhone or Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s Galaxy series, have also created an opening for foreign providers of the telecom network gear that is needed to carry the burgeoning volume of smartphone data traffic.
Japan imported ?619 billion ($5.7 billion) worth of network equipment in the financial year ended in March, up from Y603 billion a year earlier, according to the Communications and Information Network Association of Japan.
At the same time it also has two strong local players in NEC Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd., which have long-standing relationships with Japanese telecom providers such as Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.
While foreign equipment providers like Huawei Technologies Co. of China and Ericsson of Sweden have made inroads in the Japanese market for wireless and fixed-line network access gear, ¡§Alcatel hasn't been a big player,¡¨ Mr. Combes said.
The company has had better luck with equipment like core routers, which manage the flow of data within networks. The company doesn¡¦t break out its sales in Japan, though Mr. Combes said they totaled ¡§several hundred million euros,¡¨ out of a companywide total of 14.4 billion euros in 2013.
Worldwide, sales of telecommunications equipment and software totaled $183 billion in the 2013 calendar year, up 3% from 2012, according to Infonetics, a research firm. It predicts that sales will total $1 trillion from 2014 through 2018. Infonetics says Alcatel-Lucent ranks fourth, behind Cisco, Huawei and Ericsson, in sales.
Mr. Combes says new technologies like those being studied at the Tokyo site will drive growth. At the research center, Alcatel-Lucent will invite its customers to jointly investigate ways to use networks more efficiently. Service providers are turning to the cloud as they grapple with ways to deal with the surge in traffic caused by the rise of online video and other bandwidth-hungry applications.
¡§Japan is at the heart of this new strategy in terms of innovation and growth,¡¨ Mr. Combes said.
Document WSJO000020141010eaaa003jt
S.Korea's Samsung Heavy to build oil tankers for sanctioned Russian firm - sources
362 words
10 October 2014
03:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
MOSCOW, Oct 10 (Reuters) - South Korean shipbuilder Samsung Heavy Industries plans to build three Arctic tankers for Russian oil company Gazprom Neft, which has been targeted by Western sanctions, sources familiar with the deal said.
The sanctions imposed on Moscow over its role in the crisis in Ukraine have complicated Russian companies' oil exploration and production in deep water, Arctic offshore or shale projects, as they use Western technology.
Samsung Heavy said on Tuesday it had won a 472 billion Korean won ($444 million) order to build three tankers for an unnamed firm based in Europe and that it expected to complete the contract by April 2017.
The tankers will be bought by Gazprom Neft's Austria-based subsidiary Gazprom Neft Trading, one of the sources told Reuters.
"The purchaser is a trading subsidiary of Gazprom Neft based in Vienna," he said. Two other sources said that tankers were to be supplied for Gazprom Neft's subsidiary.
Although the help from the South Korean company would facilitate development of the oilfield, it indicates Russia is struggling to comply with an appeal by President Vladimir Putin to reduce reliance on imported technology.
Gazprom Neft, the oil-producing arm of Russian state gas company Gazprom, and Samsung Heavy Industries declined to comment.
The sources did not identify the future operator of the tankers or give details of the financing. The sanctions also restrict some Russian companies' access to Western finance.
Tankers are needed for supplies from Gazprom Neft's Novoportovskoye field, located in Russia's Arctic.
The Novoportovskoye field has recoverable reserves of more than 250 million tonnes of oil and gas condensate and 320 billion cubic meters of gas.
Gazprom Neft has said it plans annual light oil production at the field of 5-8 million tonnes by 2020 with a maximum possible output of 13 million tonnes per year. (Reporting by Gleb Stolyarov, Denis Pinchuk and Gleb Gorodyankin in Moscow; Additional reporting by Joyce Lee in Seoul; Writing by Polina Devitt and Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Timothy Heritage and David Evans) 
Released: 2014-10-10T09:38:10.000Z
Document LBA0000020141010eaaa007jk
 South Korean City Fights Against Nuclear Plant
WSJ Blogs, 01:44, 10 October 2014, 634 words, By In-Soo Nam, (English)
The South Korean government faces strong opposition from local citizens over a new nuclear site amid public displeasure of state projects aimed at harnessing nuclear power to meet rising energy demand.
Document WCWSJB0020141010eaaa000xe
WSJ.D Technology: IPhone 6 Demand Delays Larger iPad
By Lorraine Luk and Daisuke Wakabayashi   
620 words
10 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Apple Inc. suppliers have pushed back plans to mass produce a larger-screen tablet to early next year, people familiar with the matter said, as they struggle to make enough new iPhones to meet strong demand.
Suppliers of the Cupertino, Calif., company had originally planned to produce the larger iPad in mass volume beginning in December, the people said.
"The top priority for the supply chain is to meet the overwhelming demand for the larger screen iPhones. The output of the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus remains unsatisfactory," said a person at a supplier. "It would be challenging for display makers to split resources and spend a few months to ramp up production for a new larger screen iPad now."
Foxconn Technology Co., a major assembler of Apple's iPhones and iPads, is also facing the challenge of hiring enough factory workers to assemble the two new iPhones at its largest production site in Zhengzhou, in northern China. At the plant, more than 200,000 workers are dedicated to just making the new iPhones and key components such as metal casings. Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., is the world's largest contract manufacturer by revenue and has more than 1 million workers in China assembling electronics for companies including Apple, Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
"Everyone is busy with the new iPhones, Foxconn's bread and butter. Chairman [Terry Gou] has also gone to the Zhengzhou site to monitor the production closely," said an official at Foxconn.
Apple said it sold more than 10 million of its new iPhones in its first weekend of availability. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus went on sale in 10 countries on Sept. 19. Apple has expanded to other countries in recent weeks and is expected to start sales of the handsets in China on Oct. 17. The company is expected to give an update on iPhone sales when it reports results for the quarter ended September, on Oct. 20.
Suppliers in Asia say Apple's larger tablet will likely have a 12.9-inch liquid-crystal-display screen with resolution that is similar to the current 9.7-inch iPad Air unveiled in October last year.
Apple said on Wednesday it was hosting a media event on Oct. 16. While the media invite didn't say what will be discussed, it is expected that Apple will unveil new iPads and iMacs. It remains unclear if the company will unveil plans for the larger iPad at the event and Apple declined to comment.
Apple's plans for a larger iPad come as the company's tablet business is showing signs of slowing. Unit sales of iPads have fallen for two straight quarters, while revenue from tablets has fallen on a year-to-year basis for four of the past five quarters.
It would be the first time Apple unveils a bigger screen iPad, following its move to launch bigger-screen iPhones last month to counter competition from rivals like Samsung Electronics Co. which popularized the big-screen mobile devices.
Apple introduced a smaller iPad -- the 7.9-inch iPad Mini -- in late 2012 as it tried to offer different sizes to compete in the tablet market.
Data from research firm IDC shows Apple's share of the global tablet market has slipped to 26.9% in the second quarter from 33% a year earlier. Samsung's share of the tablet market also fell to 17.2% from 18.8% as both companies have been facing rising competition from other Chinese vendors including Lenovo Group Ltd.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141010eaaa0003m
WSJ.D Technology: Digits / wsj.com/digits
445 words
10 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Google Phone to Intensify
Phablet Competition
Google Inc. this month expects to release its largest smartphone, intensifying competition in the fast-growing market for super-sized mobile devices known as phablets, according to three people familiar with the situation.
The new phone -- code-named Shamu after a SeaWorld theme park killer whale -- will have a 5.9-inch screen, a high-resolution display and be sold under the Nexus brand, two of the people said. Motorola Mobility, the phone maker that Google is selling to China's Lenovo Group Ltd., is manufacturing the phone, the people added. Google declined to comment.
The new phone will be larger than Apple's iPhone 6 Plus, which is 5.5 inches, and the Samsung Galaxy Note, the first successful phablet, which is 5.7 inches. Google plans to release a new version of its Android mobile-operating system at the same time. Tech blog The Information reported in July that Motorola was working on a Nexus phablet with Google.
Phablets, defined as smartphones with displays five inches or larger, were once ridiculed as unwieldy bricks for short-sighted, older consumers. But as phones have evolved from calling devices into computers for work tasks and watching videos, larger devices have caught on.
In 2011, phablets accounted for 1% of global smartphone shipments. This year, these big phones will make up 24% of the market, according to consultants Strategy Analytics. Stats like that forced Apple to drop its aversion to larger iPhones this year and now Google is responding.
"The phablet wars are in full effect and vendors need any possible edge they can get," said Neil Mawston, a mobile-industry analyst at Strategy Analytics. "Having a large phone will help Google."
Google has multiple goals with its Nexus phones and tablet computers. The company wants to sell devices, but it also uses the gadgets to help its software developers test updated versions of the Android operating system. Google also hopes other Android phone makers will adopt features of Nexus devices.
Until now, the largest Nexus phone is the Nexus 5, which measures five inches. Nexus tablets are larger, but don't include cellular connections.
"If Android doesn't have something at that size there will be a hole in their portfolio," said Ankit Jain, CEO and founder of mobile start-up Quettra and a former executive at Google Play, the Android app store. "Google doesn't want to make the same mistake that Apple made over the last few years by missing out on the demand for larger phones."
-- Alistair Barr and Rolfe Winkler
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141010eaaa0001u
World News: Hong Kong: Social Apps Speed Up -- and Muddle -- Messages
By Te-Ping Chen, Fiona Law and Newley Purnell   
1,136 words
10 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
10
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
HONG KONG -- A proliferation of social media tools is creating new opportunities -- and complications -- for pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong, helping them draw more activists to the streets while also making it tougher to keep them on message.
During unrest in places like Egypt, Iran and Tunisia in the past few years, social-media stalwarts Facebook and Twitter have played central roles, and in some cases were the only major social-media options available.
The expansion of social media tools, especially messaging apps, has given Hong Kong's protesters an edge in reaching supporters en masse. Smartphones are abundant in the relatively affluent city, which, unlike mainland China, has speedy, uncensored Internet.
But it has also added to the cacophony of noise and mixed messages that have fragmented Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement from the get-go, at times making it harder for protest leaders to manage their followers.
Hong Kong's protesters have relied heavily on WhatsApp, online message boards and encrypted messaging services that offer more security, such as Telegram Messenger. One inventor is offering an app designed to give protesters an early warning if police start to move on them.
With the number of social media users approaching one billion in Asia, according to research firm Webcertain Group -- nearly five times the number of North America -- the region has become a crucial testing ground for such new technologies, and a driving force behind the growth of messaging services.
Last Friday, protest leader Benny Tai called on followers to pull out of the gritty shopping district of Mong Kok, where antiprotester violence was breaking out. But some activists quickly turned to social-messaging services to rally friends, despite the call to stay away. Placid Cheung, 22, a finance worker, says he used a WhatsApp group to get people out to Mong Kok to support the students. The night proved to be a moral victory for the protesters, showing they could stay in the streets even when under attack.
"We don't pay a lot of attention" to protest leaders, he said. "Even if they say, 'don't go,' we would still go."
Protesters are tapping an array of social-media platforms to spread information, including some that were either not around or not as widely used a few years ago.
One advantage of services like WhatsApp, protesters say, is that users can exit groups and delete message histories if they are apprehended by police, making it harder to trace contacts and communications.
Other protesters are using Telegram, a Berlin-based messaging app launched last year. The company says it uses encryption services to keep its users' data private and secure, and runs the service as a noncommercial endeavor.
Then there are services such as FireChat, a free mobile-messaging app launched in March that allows users to communicate in the absence of Internet or cellular connections. It saw a surge of downloads when the Hong Kong protests first gained momentum and leaders worried about phone signals getting jammed.
Some protesters are using multiple services at once to reach the largest-possible audience, posting photos more or less at the same time on Facebook, Instagram and Weibo, a Chinese microblogging service.
Demonstrators are deploying "a complex landscape of communication tools" now, said Mart van de Ven, a Dutch data scientist who lives in a tenement near the Mong Kok protest site.
Mr. van de Ven said he has built an app for the protesters called Rally the Brollies, using a common British term for umbrellas -- a symbol of the pro-democracy movement after protesters used them to block pepper spray.
The app provides a digital alarm system intended to alert crowds if police move in on demonstrations. If that occurs, the alarm will be triggered through a Twitter hashtag sent out by student leaders. Those who registered will hear their smartphone alarms go off at full volume and get a text message.
"We're hoping it won't be necessary to use it," Mr. van de Ven said.
To be sure, protest leaders are also using more-traditional services such as Facebook. Scholarism, a group of younger students, has more than 300,000 followers on its Facebook page, and a handful of volunteers dedicated to keeping it updated with relevant news and messages from leaders.
Among them: William Liu, an 18-year-old freshman at Hong Kong Baptist University who works from midnight until 5 a.m., posting information from a Samsung laptop.
At midnight on Wednesday, Mr. Liu reposted articles from Apple Daily, the city's influential pro-democracy tabloid.
On a typical night, he refreshes the pages every 10 to 15 minutes, checking other pro-democracy outlets that carry heavy weight with protesters, including SocRec and Passion Times, news outlets run by activist media groups that help rally the movement's foot soldiers.
In the early days of the protests, when police clashed with demonstrators, leaders sent out urgent messages on Facebook calling on activists to join them in the streets.
A few days later, they counseled protesters to think of the long game. "Don't assume this will end too soon," Scholarism's 17-year-old leader, Joshua Wong, said on his Facebook page. Protesters should "take turns in holding on to the streets."
The Hong Kong Federation of Students, meanwhile, has 10 people who are loosely charged with keeping its Facebook page fresh.
But many rank-and-file protesters either don't follow the Facebook pages because they have other preferred options -- or they don't trust them.
"I don't rely much on social media like Facebook because sometimes people post things that are fake," said Maggie Chan, a volunteer at a supply station in one protest area. "Sometimes the pages can be hacked. So I mainly rely on what my friends tell me."
Protest leaders have tried to minimize such issues by using services like Telegram to talk among themselves. But they are less-effective for communicating to the public at large.
On Wednesday, Scholarism tried a different, decidedly old-school idea: It sent a team of 50 people armed with megaphones and leaflets to different districts across Hong Kong, hoping to "spread the message and mobilize people," said spokesman Oscar Lai.
"We want to explain to them why we are doing this Occupy thing and why we are blocking the traffic."
At the protest sites, some volunteers use yellow Motorola walkie-talkies donated by supporters, instead of smartphones. The walkie-talkies work great when too many people are using their smartphones, slowing Internet speeds, one volunteer said.
---
Andrew Browne, Jenny Hsu, and Isabella Steger contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141009eaaa0001a
INTERVIEW-HTC CFO says company will not need to tap markets in 2015
478 words
8 October 2014
19:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
NEW YORK, Oct 8 (Reuters) - HTC Corp will not need to tap the capital markets in 2015 or even beyond, the Taiwanese smartphone maker's chief financial officer told Reuters on Wednesday, citing its lack of debt, $1.7 billion in cash and the ability to fund itself.
"I don't think we need to worry about it at all," Chialin Chang said in an interview on the sidelines of the company's launch of a new smartphone and miniature connected camera. "We're not going to the capital markets for funding. We can self-fund ourselves very sufficiently."
HTC's phones have often struggled to translate positive early reviews into strong sales and the Taipei-based former contract manufacturer has found it difficult to build its own identity in an increasingly competitive space.
The company last week reported better-than-forecast third-quarter profit, but mainly thanks to cost cuts rather than improved sales.
Chang said the company now has a strong portfolio of phones at prices that will attract buyers in both developed markets and emerging ones.
"I think with a more robust portfolio we're going to be able to show that we can grow again," he said. "Hopefully people will feel in the next earnings call with the guidance, we can get the momentum back."
He also said the company has no interest in being acquired and that it can "best deliver shareholder value on our own, independently."
Like other, larger mobile phone makers such as Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, HTC is trying to diversify into other "connected" devices to find new growth outside an increasingly commoditized space, though he said phones remained the company's "key bread and butter."
Chang declined to comment on reports that Google Inc has selected HTC to make its upcoming 9-inch (23-cm) tablet or that the two companies could collaborate on a "smart watch" although he acknowledged that the company was working on other "smart devices."
The "Re" camera, which can be controlled remotely from an Android or Apple phone, represents one effort to branch out beyond phones. Given that the cylinder-shaped device is waterproof and is highly portable, it could be seen as a potential competitor to GoPro Inc cameras.
Chang said that was the wrong comparison since GoPro cameras are specifically aimed at "extreme" sports while the Re, which will sell for $199 in the United States, is aimed at everyday use.
He refused to be drawn on whether the Re camera, or the Desire EYE mobile phone, which features 13 megapixel front and rear cameras, would contribute more to the company's bottom line, or provide revenue targets for either product. (Reporting by Christian Plumb; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
Released: 2014-10-12T00:37:40.000Z
Document LBA0000020141009eaa9000jh
 Journalist¡¦s Indictment Fuels Concern About Press Freedom in Korea
WSJ Blogs, 05:32, 9 October 2014, 793 words, By Alastair Gale, (English)
The indictment by South Korean prosecutors of a Japanese journalist on a charge of defamation for an article he wrote about President Park Geun-hye highlights questions about press freedom in Korea as well as a micro-industry of gossip that ...
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa900209
 Q&A: Ashton Kutcher, Lenovo ¡¥Product Engineer,¡¦ Doesn¡¦t Fear the iPad
WSJ Blogs, 15:00, 9 October 2014, 708 words, By Joanna Stern, (English)
Ashton Kutcher plays the role of Lenovo product engineer well. Really well, almost like Michael Kelso well.
Like most product managers or engineers I speak to about their new devices, he hits the key points: how the new Android-powered Yoga ...
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa9006my
Google wins bid on which court to fight Rockstar over patents
246 words
9 October 2014
11:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
WASHINGTON, Oct 9 (Reuters) - Google Inc will fight patent holder Rockstar Consortium in a California court instead of a Texas court that lawyers consider more friendly toward plaintiffs.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on Thursday ordered proceedings stayed in Texas over whether handsets made by Samsung Electronics, HTC Corp , AsuSTEK Computer, LG Electronics and ZTE Corp infringed on Rockstar's patents because they used Google's Android operating system.
Rockstar had filed the lawsuits in a Texas federal court, which is generally viewed as a friendly forum for patent owners. Google counter punched, filing a lawsuit in northern California in which it asked a judge to rule that devices using the Android platform had not infringed the patents cited by Rockstar.
The overlaps led the appeals court to rule that the issue should be decided first in California.
"It is clear that there was no need to proceed with the five Texas actions because the one California action may suffice," the court said. "The record strongly suggests that there will be substantial similarity involving the infringement and invalidity issues in all the suits."
Rockstar, which counts Apple Inc as an investor, outbid Google and paid $4.5 billion for thousands of former Nortel Network Corp patents as the networking products supplier went bankrupt in 2011. (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Grant McCool) 
Released: 2014-10-9T17:48:17.000Z
Document LBA0000020141009eaa900k5c
 Looking Into Carl Icahn¡¦s Crystal Ball on Apple
MoneyBeat, 9 October 2014, 756 words, Brian R. Fitzgerald, (English)
Our letter to @tim_cook re $AAPL on @YahooFinance Contributors ¡§Sale: Apple Shares at Half Price¡¨ http://t.co/z4F2XMtHv8 ¡X Carl Icahn (@Carl_C_Icahn) October 9, 2014 Carl Icahn, the activist investor known for rocking boats on Wall Street, ...
Document BC08551020141009eaa90008f
 Google wins bid on which court to fight Rockstar over patents
Reuters, 11:48, 9 October 2014, 335 words, (English)
WASHINGTON Oct 9 (Reuters) - Google Inc will fight patent holder Rockstar Consortium in a California court instead of a Texas court that lawyers consider more friendly toward plaintiffs.
Document WCLBA00020141009eaa90050q
 Looking Into Carl Icahn¡¦s Crystal Ball on Apple
WSJ Blogs, 10:12, 9 October 2014, 758 words, By Brian R. Fitzgerald, (English)
Our letter to @tim_cook re $AAPL on @YahooFinance Contributors "Sale: Apple Shares at Half Price" http://t.co/z4F2XMtHv8
¡X Carl Icahn (@Carl_C_Icahn) October 9, 2014
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa900439
 British entrepreneur turns Midas touch to Samsung phones
Reuters India, 06:11, 9 October 2014, 558 words, Supantha Mukherjee and Anya George Tharakan, (English)
(Reuters) - Weeks before Apple Inc (AAPL.O) unveiled its latest iPhone, a British company was advertising a gold-plated version on its website.
Document WC45421020141009eaa90001y
 ¡¥Shares at Half Price¡¦: Read Carl Icahn¡¦s New Letter to Apple
WSJ Blogs, 08:03, 9 October 2014, 4884 words, By Maureen Farrell, (English)
Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn thinks Apple Inc. is misunderstood.
In a missive posted on his website, entitled "Sale: Apple Shares at Half Price," Mr. Icahn wrote that he thinks the market is undervaluing Apple and said the ...
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa900336
 ¡¥Shares at Half Price¡¦: Read Carl Icahn¡¦s New Letter to Apple
MoneyBeat, 9 October 2014, 4925 words, Maureen Farrell, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered " style="width: 553px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd" style="text-align: left;"></dd> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" ...
Document BC08551020141009eaa90005n
 Sony Adds to Line of Cameras for Smartphones
WSJ Blogs, 23:12, 8 October 2014, 402 words, By Takashi Mochizuki, (English)
Photography buffs like to tote fancy cameras with interchangeable lenses, while average folks tend to be satisfied these days with a smartphone camera.
Document WCWSJB0020141009eaa9000m9
WSJ.D Technology: HTC Takes New Look at Itself With Selfie Camera
By Eva Dou   
637 words
9 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
TAIPEI -- While working on a product road map for smartphone maker HTC Corp. earlier this year, company Vice President Jerry Hsiao did some research.
"British women spend a month of their lives taking selfies," read an article from the British tabloid the Daily Mail that Mr. Hsiao selected for a PowerPoint slideshow highlighting his findings.
While Mr. Hsiao had included the article jokingly in a presentation this week about new products from the Taiwanese company, the observation holds true that people today are often endlessly fascinated with their own images refracted through high-tech gadgets. And long-suffering HTC is hoping that tendency will help it engineer a turnaround.
On Wednesday in New York, HTC, once the world's top smartphone maker by volume in 2011, launched a waterproof action camera and software for taking selfie photos, a departure from its usual emphasis on mobile-phone hardware. HTC also unveiled a selfie-focused smartphone to bolster the company's midprice Desire line.
It is a strategic change that the company hopes will help it reverse three years of falling sales. Last year, HTC fell out of the world's top 10 smartphone brands by shipments amid branding weakness and strong competition from Samsung Electronics Co. of South Korea in the high-end market and Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi in the low-cost segment. This month, the company said its third-quarter revenue fell 11% to 41.86 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$1.37 billion), compared with NT$47 billion a year earlier, despite returning to a net profit largely on cost cuts.
Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said in an interview that the company hopes its new products will help it return to sales growth. HTC's sales have fallen year-over-year for the past 12 quarters.
HTC's $199 Re Camera is a slim tube-shaped camera that can be clipped to a backpack, mounted on a bicycle or taken underwater. It is the company's first major venture outside smartphones since its launch of a tablet computer three years ago, and will be sold on Amazon.com and through other retailers. The camera weighs about 2.5 ounces.
Chairwoman Cher Wang has blamed marketing weakness for HTC's decline. Its third marketing chief in two years left HTC this fall, after an advertising campaign with actor Robert Downey Jr. failed to stem the company's sales slide.
In an interview, Ms. Wang said HTC is looking to invest its marketing dollars more effectively. "The most important thing is to make the end-user love you," she said.
The smartphone maker released its Zoe slideshow app free for devices powered by Google Inc.'s Android software and Apple Inc.'s iOS. Its new selfie app, HTC Eye, offers voice-activated photo-taking and a video-chat feature that keeps a subject's face centered in the screen even if the person is walking around. The company plans to eventually make the selfie app available free of charge for non-HTC users.
HTC plans to offer the new smartphone, called Desire Eye, through AT&T Inc. later this month. Unsubsidized, the smartphone would cost between US$450 and US$500, Mr. Chang said. It comes with 13-megapixel cameras on both the front and rear and has a 5.2-inch screen.
A number of competitors await HTC in the selfie-smartphone niche. Samsung, Sony Corp. of Japan and others have also rolled out smartphones with features intended to make it easier to take and edit selfie photos.
With the Re camera, HTC will have to vie against other action-camera makers, such as GoPro Inc. of San Mateo, Calif.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141009eaa90001r
Nobel Prize Is Boost For Japanese Firms
By Eric Pfanner and Megumi Fujikawa   
590 words
9 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
19
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
TOKYO -- The award of the Nobel Prize in physics to three scientists born in Japan stands to boost the morale of the country's beleaguered electronics industry, showing how obscure Japanese companies that specialize in parts and materials can still retain a technological edge.
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on Tuesday honored the researchers for inventing the blue light-emitting diode, which has made possible lighting that is more energy-efficient than incandescent bulbs. The blue diode, which first appeared in 1992, was needed to produce white light by combining it with red and green diodes, which already existed.
One of the Nobel winners, Shuji Nakamura, was working at a Japanese maker of lighting equipment, Nichia Corp., when the breakthrough occurred. The other two, Isamu Akasaki and Hiroshi Amano, helped Japanese parts supplier Toyoda Gosei Co. develop LED technology.
Nichia, which Dr. Nakamura left in 1999 in a dispute over compensation for the research, is the world's largest maker of LEDs, with $2.09 billion in sales last year, according to research firm IHS.
But Nichia's share of the $16 billion LED market was 13% last year, down from 21% in 2005, according to IHS. And while Japan is home to three of the 10 largest suppliers, Nichia, Toyoda Gosei and Stanley Electric Co., the country's share of the market is little more than 20%.
"Japanese companies are losing share because newcomers keep joining the market," said IHS analyst Lee Kun Soo. The rivals include Taiwan's Everlight Electronics Co., U.S.-based Cree Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and Seoul Semiconductor Co. of South Korea, and several Chinese companies. "Japanese companies are going for the higher end, B-to-B applications," Mr. Lee said.
LEDs can be used for simple household lamps or outdoor lighting, where they are slowly replacing incandescent bulbs. LEDs accounted for 15% of sales of household light sources last year, up from 4% in 2009, according to research firm Euromonitor. "The publicity generated by this award is likely to boost consumer interest in LED lamps," Euromonitor said. Consumer acceptance has been faster in Asia and continental Europe than in the U.S. and the U.K., the firm said.
Japanese companies have retained an edge in LEDs' most lucrative applications, such as automotive headlights and backlights for smartphone screens.
Nichia says it has 23% of the market for high-brightness LEDs, which are used for smartphones and other high-tech purposes.
Apple Inc.'s website lists Nichia as a supplier. The U.S. company didn't respond to a request for comment, but analysts have said the Japanese company makes LEDs that are used in Apple's iPhones. Closely held Nichia, which is based in remote Tokushima prefecture on the island of Shikoku, declined to identify its clients.
While some Japanese electronics firms, such as Panasonic Corp., make consumer LED lighting, Nichia sells only to other businesses. As a result, it may benefit less from the Nobel buzz than the makers of consumer LED products. Japan's Sony Corp. three weeks ago forecast a loss of $2.15 billion for the fiscal year through March, much more than it had previously predicted.
In a sign of the shrinking presence of the Japanese electronics industry, the nation's biggest consumer technology trade show, now under way outside Tokyo, has drawn the smallest number of exhibitors since the show's inception in 2000.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141008eaa90000m
Tech
Finally, a $100 Tablet Worth Buying; Battery Life, Speed Make Amazon¡¦s Fire HD 6 the Best Deal Among Low-Price Competitors
By Geoffrey A. Fowler 
1,397 words
8 October 2014
10:03
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Here¡¦s a surprise: You can now buy a tablet for $100. Here¡¦s a bigger surprise: It won¡¦t necessarily be terrible.
Cheap Android tablets have been on the market for a while, but most were barely worth turning into cat toys. Now, four years after the first iPad, Amazon¡¦s $99 Fire HD 6 has brought a new baseline of quality to tablets that are inexpensive enough to be essentially disposable.
This means two things: First, you don¡¦t have to lay out big bucks for an iPad or Galaxy Tab for everyone in your family. Second, your cheap tablets aren¡¦t necessarily going to last as long, and you must be better prepared for what to do with them when they die.
Amazon¡¦s new tablet caught my attention because it doesn¡¦t skimp on core specs. It is as speedy as the top of the line from 2012, which is to say decent. And its 6-inch screen is sufficiently bright and visible from most angles. (A 7-inch version costs $139.) Even the battery holds up to more than 11? hours of video playback.
So I put it to the test, alongside two other Android tablets from big brands, Acer¡¦s Iconia One 7 and Asus¡¦ MeMO Pad 7 (whose $100 price has since risen to $120). I also threw an ultracheap tablet in the mix, the $55 Tablet Express Dragon Touch 7, which has garnered thousands of rather divided customer reviews online.
All four of these tablets represent compromise. If you¡¦re a no-compromises kind of person, take a look at the Samsung Galaxy Tab S or tune in Oct. 16 when Apple is expected to unveil new iPads which will surely make last year¡¦s models feel ancient. But thanks to the persistent drumbeat of manufacturing efficiency, it¡¦s now possible to get 80% of the functionality of a full-featured tablet for 30% of the price.
Amazon¡¦s Fire makes a fine children¡¦s playtime machine, pocket-size video player, Web browser or e-book reader, if you don¡¦t mind that Amazon subsidizes the $99 version with ads on the tablet¡¦s lock screen. And if you don¡¦t want to be locked into Amazon¡¦s store and Prime service, Acer¡¦s Iconia One is a passable alternative, albeit one with a weaker battery and camera.
What¡¦s a $100 Tablet Good For?
I tested my lineup of tablets with a gantlet of everyday tasks.
For many of us, tablets are foremost portable TVs for watching Netflix or baby sitting little ones with cartoons. Even a $55 tablet can play or stream video today. For $100, Amazon¡¦s Fire does entertainment almost as well as Apple, with its own version of Android tailored to its large content store.
The Fire¡¦s 6-inch screen, while an inch smaller than both the Acer and Asus, packs enough bright, saturated pixels to make most videos look OK. Only by holding it next to a pricier tablet can you see where Amazon cut corners. Though high-def, the screen isn¡¦t the ¡§full HD¡¨ found on TVs and higher-end tablets. And, lacking the latest display advancements, it also suffers from glare.
Thankfully, Amazon didn¡¦t skimp on battery life. The Fire lasted nearly half a day when I set it playing video with brightness at 50%, a performance only Asus could come close to matching. (Acer¡¦s Iconia One ran out of juice after about six hours; the poor Dragon Touch ran out in under four hours.)
Still, the Fire¡¦s battery performance fell by half when I set brightness to max, which you¡¦d want if you¡¦re using it near a window. I wish the Fire had an auto brightness setting.
E-books and websites download fine on the Fire, though Amazon did use a slower Wi-Fi chip on the HD line than on its premium HDX tablets. That $80 step up also has a higher-resolution screen that makes type appear smoother.
The biggest compromise is how it feels in your hands. The Fire is small enough to fit in a roomy pocket or bag, but when I sit back to read, it feels a little chunky. It weighs about as much as an iPad Mini, and less than a full can of Coke. None of Amazon¡¦s bargain competitors were significantly slimmer.
All cheap tablets have front and rear cameras these days. But don¡¦t buy a $100 tablet to take pictures. Actually, don¡¦t buy any tablet to take pictures¡Xyou look silly. If you insist, here¡¦s what you¡¦ll get from the Fire: Shots that look like they came from your 2009 smartphone. Still, it was the leader of the $100 pack.
These tablets also can run most popular Android games. I could knock out the trickiest swine in ¡§Angry Birds,¡¨ and crash into lots of things with ¡§Need for Speed Most Wanted.¡¨
The zippiest performance came from the Fire HD 6, which clocks in at about the same speed as a 2012 Samsung Galaxy Note II phablet. Still, don¡¦t buy the Fire for a serious gamer: More graphics-rich games tend to come first¡Xor only¡Xto Apple devices. Amazon doesn¡¦t even offer some popular Android games found in Google¡¦s Play store, such as ¡§Madden NFL Mobile.¡¨
The ultimate test¡Xthe tablet pentathlon¡Xis Skyping with loved ones. It requires fast wireless, a zippy processor, decent cameras and speakers and a screen visible from all angles. While the Fire¡¦s front-facing camera is very low resolution, it did a fine job balancing the shot in a backlit situation. Its speaker is a little on the quiet side, but sounded natural.
What¡¦s most impressive about Amazon and Acer for video chats is that you and the rest of the family can see the screen at the same time from different positions. The Asus and Dragon Touch, on the other hand, have some of the worst viewing angle problems I¡¦ve seen in years.
None of the screens were great for getting work done. You can answer work email on a $100 tablet, but you wouldn¡¦t want to use apps that require any sort of precision. Switching between running apps is possible on these tablets, but so slow it will make you sad.
Speaking of apps, you¡¦ll find generic office suites but no official Microsoft Office on Android tablets. Amazon doesn¡¦t even have access to Google¡¦s free productivity apps, a possible deal-breaker for some.
How Long Will a $100 Tablet Last?
Before buying a $100 tablet you¡¦re going to have ask the tough questions of how long you expect it to be in service¡Xand what you¡¦ll do when it craps out.
You can¡¦t easily replace the batteries on any of these tablets (same as with the iPad). And processors falter as software gets more sophisticated. Amazon¡¦s latest system software doesn¡¦t even support tablets the company made three years ago. I¡¦d wager this Fire will do fine for about 18 months.
Companies haven¡¦t always made it easy to properly get rid of electronics, but that¡¦s starting to change. For $50 more, Amazon sells a Kids Edition of this tablet with a rugged case and a guarantee from Amazon that if it gets broken the company will take it back and send you a new one.
Amazon, Acer and Asus have little-advertised free programs that take back tablets via mail, wipe your personal data, then refurbish or recycle them. Best Buy takes back many devices in person, and 1800recycling.com can help you find others.
A recent Best Buy-commissioned survey found just 39% of people say they recycle their electronics. If tablets are designed to become obsolete sooner rather than later, companies need to build them to be recycled and make it easier for us to do our part.
Corrections & Amplifications
A recent Best Buy-commissioned survey found 39% of people say they recycle their electronics. A previous version of this column incorrectly identified Electronic Recyclers International as having conducted the survey. (Oct. 7, 2014)
Document WSJO000020141007eaa7005em
 Lotte Invites Monster Duck to Soothe Construction Flap
WSJ Blogs, 01:50, 8 October 2014, 300 words, By Jaeyeon Woo, (English)
Can a giant yellow duck endear the public to a controversial mega-construction project in eastern Seoul?
Dutch installation artist Florentijn Hofman¡¦s rubber duck will come to Seoul on Oct. 14, sponsored by Lotte Group in time for the ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa80012x
CORRECTED-INTERVIEW-Japan's Murata unconcerned about reliance on Apple for sales -CEO
575 words
8 October 2014
01:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Removes reference in the first two paragraphs to Murata earning half of its smartphone revenue from Apple and Samsung)
* Sees strong demand from low-end Chinese smartphone makers
* On track for record sales in current financial year
By Sophie Knight and Yoshiyasu Shida
CHIBA, Oct 7 (Reuters) - Murata Manufacturing Co Ltd's chief executive said rising demand for electronic components from Chinese smartphone makers could buffer any future fall in sales from two of its largest customers, known to be Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd .
For the moment, the Japanese firm is not worried about depending on those two companies as they command half the smartphone market, Chief Executive Tsuneo Murata told Reuters in an interview without identifying them by name on Tuesday at CEATEC, one of Japan's biggest electronics trade shows.
"There's nothing bad about relying on something strong," Murata said.
"If it goes bad maybe that would be a problem. But if you look at a pie chart of smartphone makers, we cover basically all of it. Even if the slices of that pie chart change it wouldn't affect us much."
Murata's confidence is unusual among Apple suppliers, many of whom are moving to reduce their reliance on the Californian technology company after being hurt by the volatility of its product cycle or by the tightness of its margins.
Murata's mainstay products are ceramic capacitors, tiny parts that control the flow of electricity in electronic devices from game consoles to car engine controls. The majority are used in smartphones, which account for around 40 percent of Murata's overall sales.
Because of their size and the fact that they do not need to be custom-designed for different phone models like display panels, Murata can more flexibly make up for a shortfall in orders from a big customer like Apple than companies that make niche or custom-made parts.
Other Japanese parts makers such as Sharp Corp are seeking to lower their dependence on Apple while sapphire manufacturer GT Advanced Technologies Inc filed for bankruptcy on Monday after signing an exclusive contract with Apple to supply sapphire glass from a new factory.
Murata said that his company's performance for the three months to Sept. 31 was in line with expectations and that sales to China had been strong, although lower than initially expected after the largest carrier there, China Mobile Ltd, pulled back from a recommendation for higher handset specifications that had increased demand for Murata's components.
However, Murata remains bullish about the company's reliance on smartphones for profit even as other Japanese makers of high-end parts fret about slowing demand for pricier phones and expanding sales of low-end phones.
"We are not selling cheaply to Chinese makers... There is an ongoing shift from 3G phones to 4G and that is creating additional demand for our parts. So an increase in low-end Chinese smartphones is anything but a minus for us - it's a plus."
Murata is still on track for record sales for a second straight year after logging 846.7 billion yen ($7.8 billion) in revenue for the year ended March 31. It is guiding for 34.1 billion yen in operating profit for the quarter from July to September. (1 US dollar = 108.5600 Japanese yen)
Released: 2014-10-11T06:31:30.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa7008px
 Speculation Heats Up as Kim Jong Un Remains Out of View
WSJ Blogs, 22:23, 7 October 2014, 620 words, By Alastair Gale, (English)
What¡¦s happened to Kim Jong Un? It¡¦s a question on the mind of every North Korea observer and increasingly the international media as speculation spreads that the dictator¡¦s prolonged disappearance may herald some sort of a major shift in ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8000b5
 Samsung Shares Test Limits of ¡¥Rock Bottom¡¦
WSJ Blogs, 02:28, 8 October 2014, 622 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
Is this what rock bottom feels like?
In recent days, at least four analysts have used precisely that phrase -- "rock bottom" -- to describe the plight of shares in Samsung Electronics Co., which have tumbled more than 20% in the past four ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa80018h
 North Korea Still in Denial Over Prison Camps
WSJ Blogs, 04:42, 8 October 2014, 482 words, By Alastair Gale, (English)
North Korea on Tuesday briefly appeared to admit for the first time that it runs a network of political prison camps. Or did it?
At a press briefing held at the United Nations to dispute a report issued earlier this year by the U.N. about ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8001xh
Mazda, Doritos, Whole Foods Line Up to Promote 'The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1'
By Marc Graser   
496 words
8 October 2014
17:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - After two successful films, Lionsgate's "Hunger Games" franchise is attracting an unexpected group of promotional partners for its next installment.
Mazda, Doritos and Whole Foods Market have joined Samsung to launch campaigns around "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1," which will fly into theaters in Nov. 21.
Samsung already has kicked off its campaign, having provided fans the chance to watch the first teaser trailer for the film at San Diego Comic-Con, showcasing the footage on its new tablet, of course. Company also built a lavish experience to bring the film to life by displaying character posters, costumes, President Snow's white chair (from the film) and pastries from Peeta's Bakery.
While none of the brand partners will be featured in the new movie - no, District 13's citizens won't be munching on Doritos - their tie-ins will make it seem as if they're part of "The Hunger Games" world.
For example, Mazda will enable fans to submit designs for a hovercraft via Tumblr, with each one triggering a donation to one of the company's charitable partners. The automaker is the film's official automobile sponsor of the U.S. premiere.
Mazda also will team up with Doritos to sponsor the film's Our Leader the Mockingjay app, available through OurLeaderTheMockingjay.Co.In, the Apple and Android app stores.
Naturally, "Mockingjay - Part 1" characters and film imagery will appear on Doritos bags beginning this month. When scanned with mobile devices, the packaging will unlock exclusive content through the film's app. Company's also launched microsite Unlock District 13, that is running a sweepstakes.
Similarly, Mazda will offer up exclusive content for the movie when a Mazda logo is scanned from a brochure, print ad or on Mazda's U.S. website using the app.
Also enlisting its charity programs around "Mockingjay - Part 1" is Whole Foods.
The grocery chain will donate $1 to its Whole Planet Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to alleviating global poverty, each time its in-house Courage of One juice brand is purchased.
Effort is a continuation of the charity programs Lionsgate launched around the "The Hunger Games" franchise's previous films.
"We are proud of our association with not-for-profit organizations like Whole Planet Foundation and to continue to build on our relationships with 'The Hunger Games' franchise partners Feeding America and World Food Programme," said Tim Palen, Lionsgate's chief marketing officer.
Francis Lawrence returns to direct the series' third film, starring Jennifer Lawrence, from a screenplay by Peter Craig and Danny Strong.
The novel on which the film is based is the third in a trilogy written by Suzanne Collins, with over 65 million copies in print in the U.S. alone.
The first "Hunger Games: Catching Fire" had CoverGirl and Subway as partners. 
Released: 2014-10-8T23:09:16.000Z
Document LBA0000020141008eaa800rs3
 HTC Focuses on Images with Desire Eye Phone and Re Camera
WSJ Blogs, 15:45, 8 October 2014, 760 words, By Nathan Olivarez-Giles, (English)
HTC is hoping that a focus on photos and video will lure in consumers this holiday season. On Wednesday, HTC introduced the Desire Eye, a smartphone with a 13-megapixel front-facing camera for high-quality selfies, and the Re, a camera ...
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8006el
 The Morning Download: Microsoft CEO Nadella Lays Out Hybrid Cloud Strategy
CIO Report, 07:11, 8 October 2014, 1965 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141008eaa800001
 CMO Today: Buffett¡¦s Case on Newspapers
WSJ Blogs, 07:50, 8 October 2014, 1008 words, By Steven Perlberg, (English)
Here¡¦s your morning roundup of the biggest marketing, advertising and media industry news and happenings. Send tips, suggestions and complaints to steven.perlberg@wsj.com
Document WCWSJB0020141008eaa8002xm
S.Korea powers up downtown duty-free sales as China tourism magnet
611 words
8 October 2014
06:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* China visitors to hit 6 mln this year, up 39 pct vs 2013               
* Leaders Lotte and Shilla apply 'Korean wave' marketing               
* 'I came to Seoul to shop' - Beijing resident, 24               
By Joyce Lee               
SEOUL, Oct 8 (Reuters) - Already the world's biggest duty-free market, South Korea said on Wednesday it will issue more licences for downtown duty-free shops, doubling down on a strategy that has helped it outstrip  regional rivals seeking to reel in shopaholic Chinese tourists.               
Seoul-based Lotte Duty Free and Hotel Shilla, part of the Samsung Group, have been adept at luring mainland China shoppers by promoting in-vogue South Korean culture - known as the "Korean wave" - and products such as cosmetics and appliances. The tactic has helped turn the pair into the world's fourth- and eighth-largest duty free retailers by sales respectively.               
Thanks to Chinese tourists' appetite for the luxury goods and, in particular, Korean items, South Korea overtook Britain in 2010 to become the world's largest duty-free market. In 2012, the last year for which full sales numbers are available globally, it raked in $5.86 billion in duty-free sales, or 11 percent of the global market, according to the Korea Customs Service.               
"Lotte and Shilla's particular strength lies in their understanding of the North Asia traveller, the Koreans naturally but more particularly the Chinese and the Japanese," said Martin Moodie, an industry expert and chairman of the Moodie Report.               
Korean cosmetics, he said, are "arguably the hottest category in travel retail worldwide".               
South Korea is enjoying a wave of popularity with Chinese tourists, with visitor numbers on track to hit 6 million this year, up 39 percent from the 4.32 million arrivals in 2013, according to the Korea Tourism Organisation.                              
'I CAME TO SHOP'               
South Korea is hardly alone in looking to attract free-spending Chinese visitors. This month, Japan extended its list of items that can be sold duty-free, including food, medicines and cosmetics.               
Driven by government tourism promotions of "Cool Japan" culture and a weaker yen, the number of travellers to Japan has doubled in the past decade to top 10 million for the first time last year. Japan wants to double that again to 20 million by 2020, the year of the Tokyo Olympics.               
In downtown Seoul on Wednesday, Wei Ci, a 24-year-old Beijing resident, scanned a row of local skincare products at the Dongwha Duty-Free Store. "I came to Korea mainly to shop," she said, explaining she planned to spend the day making the rounds of the capital's duty-free shops.               
Lotte Duty Free, a unit of Lotte Shopping, and Shilla have specialised in downtown duty-free shops in South Korea's bustling cities. Unlike traditional airport duty-free shops, they must generate their own tourist traffic.               
To do that, they engage in marketing that is more aggressive than the industry standard, staging Korean music - K-pop - concerts and fan meetings with actors and using Chinese social media such as the Weibo microblogging service. Both are now pursuing expansion overseas.               
Of South Korea's current 42 duty-free shops - Lotte has 8 Shilla 6 - some 17 are in city locations, including two on the holiday hotspot island of Jeju. At these locations, as in airport shops, duty-free shoppers must show a boarding pass for an upcoming flight.               
South Korea government officials didn't specify on Wednesday how many new licences may be added. The matter needs to be discussed with regional authorities to gauge demand, they said.               
Released: 2014-10-8T12:01:37.000Z
Document LBA0000020141008eaa800bcq
 The Morning Ledger: Global Growth Fears Hit U.S. Shares
CFO Report, 05:35, 8 October 2014, 2053 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each ...
Document WCCFO00020141008eaa800001
WSJ.D Technology: Samsung Braces for Cost Cuts as Profit Ebbs --- After Fourth Consecutive Decline in Quarterly Operating Earnings, Smartphone Maker Faces Big Transition
By Min-Jeong Lee   
951 words
8 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
SEOUL -- Samsung Electronics Co. is bracing for more cost cuts and a potential management change later this year as it struggles to halt a sharp slide in profit.
The world's biggest smartphone maker by shipments said on Tuesday its third-quarter operating profit likely fell as much as 62% from a year earlier, hit by weak smartphone sales. This would mark its fourth consecutive decline in operating profit and its steepest year-over-year decline in the past five years.
Samsung, South Korea's biggest company by market capitalization, is facing stiff competition from Chinese handset makers that are aggressively introducing less-costly phones. In the high-end smartphone market, it is battling Apple Inc., which last month unveiled new iPhones with bigger screens that are popular with consumers.
Samsung's weak guidance further highlighted the company's overdependence on the mobile division to generate earnings growth, said analysts.
"Samsung's memory-chip business is now the only division that is doing well," said C.W. Chung, an analyst with Nomura in Seoul. "Until the company's mobile unit is able to recover, continued strength in the company's chip business will be key."
Critics said Samsung is struggling to figure out its growth strategy beyond its recent focus on smartphones, software and wearable devices.
Samsung appeared to be shifting its emphasis to the semiconductor business when it unveiled an aggressive $14.7 billion investment plan on Monday to build a chip-manufacturing plant in South Korea. Shares of rival chip makers slumped after the move because of concerns about a potential supply glut.
Uncertainties about its future also loom as Samsung grapples with the transition of management power to a new generation. Chairman Lee Kun-hee remains in a hospital after a heart attack in May. While Samsung said Mr. Lee's health is improving, critics said the company apparently lacks the visionary leadership it needs to steer it into new growth areas, especially at a challenging time.
In recent months, Samsung affiliates have been carrying out a series of financial transactions that would help heir-apparent and Mr. Lee's only son, Jay Y. Lee, assume control of the company from his father. The younger Mr. Lee, a vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, remains the biggest shareholder of the de facto holding company of Samsung Group, South Korea's biggest conglomerate.
"There needs to be a smooth transition, but we'll have to wait and see if his son can play a similar role," said Mr. Chung of Nomura.
Samsung's mobile business -- which generates more than 60% of its operating profit -- earlier this year forced hundreds of senior managers to take a 25% cut in their first-half bonuses, according to people familiar with the matter. Now, executives and senior managers are bracing for more cost cuts, a person familiar with the situation recently said. Details of any new cost cuts couldn't be immediately learned. In a surprise move last month, Samsung quietly shifted about 500 software engineers from its mobile unit to other parts of the company.
Expectations for the third quarter had already been low because sales of Samsung's flagship device, Galaxy S5, have been weaker than forecast, analysts said, and the company began to roll out its new smartphone-tablet hybrid, the Galaxy Note 4, only late last month. Even though Samsung has unveiled a number of mobile devices in the quarter, including a smartphone with a curved edge, analysts said the products aren't resonating with consumers.
Samsung said in a written statement that while smartphone shipments increased in the quarter, its operating margin was weighed down by hefty marketing costs and falling average selling prices.
As a result, the company said its third-quarter operating profit likely fell 58% to 62% from a year earlier to between 3.9 trillion won and 4.3 trillion won (or $3.6 billion and $4 billion), missing analysts' expectations of 4.3 trillion won. A year earlier, Samsung reported an operating profit of 10.2 trillion won. It estimated revenue of 46 trillion won to 48 trillion won in the latest period, below the 59.1 trillion won reported a year earlier.
Samsung also sounded a cautious note about the fourth quarter, saying the outlook remains uncertain.
With the mobile unit widely expected to drag down profit in the next few quarters, Samsung's memory-chip business is expected to cushion the blow thanks to tight global supply, analysts said. Chip profits could exceed those from mobile phones later this year, rising to at least 50% of overall operating profit from about 20% last year, some analysts predict. Samsung's semiconductor profit last topped mobile profit in the second quarter of 2011.
Still, Samsung faces strong competition in the microprocessor sector, with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. winning orders for chips used in Apple's iPhones. Samsung's microprocessor business has been mired in losses, according to analysts' estimates. The company didn't disclose divisional figures in its guidance Tuesday.
Doh Hyun-woo, an analyst with Mirae Asset Securities in Seoul, said he expects Samsung's operating profit from its chip business to rise 34% to 11.5 trillion won in 2015, from an estimated 8.6 trillion won this year. He forecast mobile operating profit to fall 34% to 9.7 trillion won next year from an estimated 14.8 trillion won in 2014.
Samsung is slated to release final third-quarter earnings results later this month.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141008eaa80001g
CRISIL ratings for Indian debt instruments-Oct 8
1,732 words
7 October 2014
23:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 8 (Reuters) - Below are the ratings awarded by Credit Rating Information Service of
India (CRISIL) for local debt instruments as of October 7, 2014.
COMPANY                               INSTRUMENT         RATING         AMOUNT  MOVEMENT
                                                                        (RS.MLN)
------                                ----------         ------         -----   ---------
SHORT TERM RATINGS:
-------------------
Anubhav Plast Pvt Ltd                 BG                 CRISIL A4      15      Assigned
Econ Antri Ltd                        BG                 CRISIL A3+     60      Reaffirmed
Finolex Industries Ltd                ST Debt            CRISIL A1+     1100    Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A1
Finolex Industries Ltd                LOC & BG#          CRISIL A1+     12957.5 Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A1
# Letter of Credit & Bank Guarantee are interchangeable with buyer's credit
Golden Texo Fabs Ltd                  BG                 CRISIL A3      31.7    Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB
Hyprecision Hydraulik                 LOC                CRISIL A4+     90      Assigned
Hyprecision Hydraulik                 BG                 CRISIL A4+     20      Assigned
J. M. Financial & Investment          ST Debt Programme  CRISIL A1+     1000    Reaffirmed
Consultancy Services Pvt Ltd
J. M. Financial & Investment          CP Issue^          CRISIL A1+     10000   Withdrawal
Consultancy Services Pvt Ltd
^Assigned for initial public offering financing on episodic basis
JM Financial Products Ltd             ST Bk Fac          CRISIL A1+     1000    Reaffirmed
JM Financial Products Ltd             CP Programme       CRISIL A1+     35000   Reaffirmed
JM Financial Products Ltd             CP Issue^          CRISIL A1+     6000    Withdrawal
^Assigned for initial public offering financing on episodic basis
JM Financial Products Ltd             CP Issue^          CRISIL A1+     20000   Withdrawal
^Assigned for initial public offering financing on episodic basis
National Bank for Agriculture and RuraCP                 CRISIL A1+     190000  Enhanced from
Development                                                                     150 Billion
National Bank for Agriculture and RuraOne-Year CDs       CRISIL A1+     20000   Reaffirmed
Development                           Programme
Nuray Chemicals Pvt Ltd               BG                 CRISIL A4      10      Reaffirmed
Nuray Chemicals Pvt Ltd               LOC                CRISIL A4      10      Reaffirmed
Pillai & Sons Motor Company           Inventory Funding  CRISIL A4+     120     Reaffirmed
                                      Fac
Raksha TPA Pvt Ltd                    BG                 CRISIL A2      100     Reaffirmed
Raksha TPA Pvt Ltd                    Proposed ST Bk     CRISIL A2      50      Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Rateria Laminators Pvt. Ltd           BG                 CRISIL A4+     24      Reaffirmed
Samsung Overseas Ltd                  BG                 CRISIL A4+     3       Reaffirmed
Samsung Overseas Ltd                  Bill Discounting   CRISIL A4+     250     Reaffirmed
Samsung Overseas Ltd                  LOC                CRISIL A4+     700     Reaffirmed
Sanco Industries Ltd                  BG                 CRISIL A4+     20      Reaffirmed
Sanco Industries Ltd                  LOC*               CRISIL A4+     134     Reaffirmed
* Fully interchange able with standby line of credit
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     ST Bk Fac          CRISIL A1+     9.05    Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     BG Fac             CRISIL A1+     26.0757 Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     ST Debt Programme  CRISIL A1+     20000   Reaffirmed
Somany Ceramics Ltd                   LOC                CRISIL A1      730     Reaffirmed
Tirupati Cylinders Ltd                BG                 CRISIL A3      160     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB+
Tirupati LPG Industries Ltd           BG                 CRISIL A3      150     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A4+
Trans Damodar Coal Mining (P) Ltd.    BG                 CRISIL A3      40.8    Reaffirmed
Unique Gems                           Post Shipment      CRISIL A4+     68      Reaffirmed
                                      Credit
VM Coallogix Pvt Ltd                  LOC                CRISIL D       140     Downgraded
                                                                                from CRISIL
                                                                                A4+
VM Coallogix Pvt Ltd                  Proposed CC Limit  CRISIL D       240     Downgraded
                                                                                from CRISIL BB
VM Coallogix Pvt Ltd                  Proposed LOC       CRISIL D       310     Downgraded
                                                                                from CRISIL
                                                                                A4+
MEDIUM TERM RATINGS:
-------------------
National Bank for Agriculture and RuraFD Programme       FAAA           1000    Reaffirmed
Development
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     FD Programme       FAA+                   Reaffirmed
LONG TERM RATINGS:
-------------------
Alard Charitable Trust                TL                 CRISIL D       160     Reaffirmed
Alard Charitable Trust                WC Demand Loan     CRISIL D       30      Reaffirmed
Anubhav Plast Pvt Ltd                 Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL B+      10      Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Anubhav Plast Pvt Ltd                 CC*                CRISIL B+      70      Assigned
*Sublimit of Rs.25 million for Book Debts
City Heart Hotels Pvt Ltd             Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB      31.8    Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
City Heart Hotels Pvt Ltd             TL                 CRISIL BB      83.2    Assigned
Cosmo Electro Industries Pvt Ltd      CC                 CRISIL BB+     200     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB
Cosmo Electro Industries Pvt Ltd      TL                 CRISIL BB+     35      Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB
Dwarkadhish Sakhar Karkhana Ltd       CC                 CRISIL BB      121.5   Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB-
Dwarkadhish Sakhar Karkhana Ltd       LT Loan            CRISIL BB      206.7   Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB-
Econ Antri Ltd                        CC                 CRISIL BBB     15      Reaffirmed
Econ Antri Ltd                        Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BBB     126.5   Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Finolex Industries Ltd                NCD                CRISIL AA-     2250    Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A+
Finolex Industries Ltd                CC                 CRISIL AA-     1000    Reaffirmed
Finolex Industries Ltd                TL                 CRISIL AA-     1000    Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A+
G.R.S. Ispat Company Pvt Ltd          CC                 CRISIL BB-     147.5   Assigned
G.R.S. Ispat Company Pvt Ltd          Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB-     2.5     Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Golden Floor Furnishing Pvt Ltd       CC                 CRISIL BBB-    58      Assigned
Golden Floor Furnishing Pvt Ltd       TL                 CRISIL BBB-    117     Assigned
Golden Texo Fabs Ltd                  CC                 CRISIL BBB-    369     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB
Golden Texo Fabs Ltd                  TL                 CRISIL BBB-    597.3   Assigned
Golden Texo Fabs Ltd                  Foreign LOC        CRISIL BBB-    2       Assigned
Guru Nanak Rice & Gen. Mills          CC                 CRISIL B       100     Reaffirmed
Guru Nanak Rice & Gen. Mills          Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL B       22.5    Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Guru Nanak Rice & Gen. Mills          TL                 CRISIL B       10      Reaffirmed
Guru Ram Dass Educational Society     TL                 CRISIL B+      120     Reaffirmed
Hyprecision Hydraulik                 CC                 CRISIL BB-     25      Assigned
JM Financial Products Ltd             CC                 CRISIL AA-     500     Reaffirmed
JM Financial Products Ltd             LT Bk Fac          CRISIL AA-     1500    Reaffirmed
JM Financial Products Ltd             Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL AA-     2000    Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
JM Financial Products Ltd             NCD                CRISIL AA-     7000    Reaffirmed
Kartik International                  CC                 CRISIL B+      100     Reaffirmed
Livewel Air Team Pvt Ltd              CC                 CRISIL BB+     450     Reaffirmed
Livewel Air Team Pvt Ltd              Proposed CC Limit  CRISIL BB+     60      Reaffirmed
Livewel Aviation Services Pvt Ltd     CC                 CRISIL BB+     300     Reaffirmed
Livewel Aviation Services Pvt Ltd     Proposed CC Limit  CRISIL BB+     120     Reaffirmed
Livewel Aviation Services Pvt Ltd     TL                 CRISIL BB+     100     Reaffirmed
Narmadeshwar Rice Mills Pvt Ltd       CC                 CRISIL B+      20      Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL B
Narmadeshwar Rice Mills Pvt Ltd       Proposed TL        CRISIL B+      6.9     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL B
Narmadeshwar Rice Mills Pvt Ltd       TL                 CRISIL B+      32.3    Assigned
National Bank for Agriculture and RuraBonds              CRISIL AAA     760000  Reaffirmed
Development
North India Steel Company             CC                 CRISIL BB-     60      Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL B+
North India Steel Company             Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB-     50      Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Nuray Chemicals Pvt Ltd               CC                 CRISIL B       70      Reaffirmed
Nuray Chemicals Pvt Ltd               LT Loan            CRISIL B       210     Reaffirmed
Nuray Chemicals Pvt Ltd               Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL B       30      Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Pillai & Sons Motor Company           CC                 CRISIL BB      20      Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB-
Pillai & Sons Motor Company           Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB      10      Upgraded from
                                      Loan Fac                                  CRISIL BB-
Rateria Laminators Pvt. Ltd           Channel Financing  CRISIL BB      40      Reaffirmed
Samsung Overseas Ltd                  Export Packing     CRISIL BB      100     Reaffirmed
                                      Credit
Samsung Overseas Ltd                  Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB      12.5    Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Sanco Industries Ltd                  CC                 CRISIL BB      134     Reaffirmed
Sanco Industries Ltd                  Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB      2       Assigned
                                      Loan Fac
Savitridevi Cotton & Oil Ltd          CC                 CRISIL D       47.5    Reaffirmed
Savitridevi Cotton & Oil Ltd          TL                 CRISIL D       22.5    Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     NCDs               CRISIL AA      132800  Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     Subordinated Debt  CRISIL AA      15000   Reaffirmed
                                      Issue (Tier-II
                                      Bonds)
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     LT Bk Fac          CRISIL AA      156.08  Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL AA      35.8993 Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     CC/WC Demand Loan  CRISIL AA      64.895  Reaffirmed
Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd     BG Fac             CRISIL AA      8       Reaffirmed
Somany Ceramics Ltd                   CC                 CRISIL A       1400    Reaffirmed
Somany Ceramics Ltd                   Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL A       4.9     Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Somany Ceramics Ltd                   TL                 CRISIL A       935.1   Assigned
Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd   Perpetual Bonds    CRISIL AA-     2000    Reaffirmed
                                      Programme
Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd   NCDs               CRISIL AA+     20000   Assigned
Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd   NCDs               CRISIL AA+     58000   Reaffirmed
Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd   Subordinated Debt  CRISIL AA+     5000    Reaffirmed
Tirupati Cylinders Ltd                CC                 CRISIL BBB-    150     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL A4+
Tirupati LPG Industries Ltd           CC                 CRISIL BBB-    175     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BB+
Trans Damodar Coal Mining (P) Ltd.    Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BBB-    332.1   Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
Trans Damodar Coal Mining (P) Ltd.    TL                 CRISIL BBB-    27.1    Assigned
Unique Gems                           Export Packing     CRISIL BB-     17      Reaffirmed
                                      Credit
Unique Gems                           Proposed LT Bk     CRISIL BB-     115     Reaffirmed
                                      Loan Fac
VM Coallogix Pvt Ltd                  CC                 CRISIL D       60      Downgraded
                                                                                from CRISIL BB
Xrbia Hinjewadi Developers Pvt Ltd    CC                 CRISIL BBB     850     Upgraded from
                                                                                CRISIL BBB-
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$: Rating watch with positive implication
#: Rating Watch with Developing implications
@: Rating Watch with Negative Implications
%: Rating under Credit Watch
wd -Rating Stands Withdrawn
sp -Rating Suspended
pp -Principal Protected
pn -Principal Not Protected
CRISIL may apply + or - signs for ratings to reflect a comparative standing within the category.
BG-Bank Guarantee; CC-Cash Credit; CCPS-Cumulative Convertible Preference Share; CD-Certificate
of Deposit; CLO-Collateralized Loan Obligation; CPA-Claims Paying Ability; CP-Commercial
Paper; CPS-convertible preference shares; CRPS- Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Preference
shares; DDB-Deep Discount Bond; EPBI-Exchange premium bond; FBL-Fund Based Limits; FRB/FRN
-Floating Rate Bond/Note; ICD -Inter Corporate Deposit; ITD-Immediate Term Debt; LOC-Letter of
Credit; LT -Long Term; LTB -Long Term Borrowing; LTD -Long Term Debt; MOCD-multiple option
convertible debenture; MTD -Medium term Debenture; MTN-medium term notes; NCD(SO) -
Non-Convertible Debenture-(Structured Obligation); NCD-Non-convertible Debentures; NCRB-Non
Convertible Redeemable Bonds; NM-Not Meaningful; OCD-optionally convertible debenture; OD-Over
Draft; OFCD-Optionally Fully Convertible Debenture; PCD-Partially Convertible Debenture;
PCN-partly convertible notes; PCPS-Partly Convertible Preference Share; POCD-partly optional;
PP-privately placed; PSPC-Post Shipment & Packing Credit; PS-Preference Shares; PTC-Pass
Through Certificates; RPS-Redeemable Preference Shares; SCPN-secured convertible preference
notes; SDO-Structured Debt Obligation; SLR-Statutory Liquidity Ratio; SO-Structured
Obligation; SPCD - Secured Partly Convertible Debentures; SPN-secured premium notes; STB-Short
Term Bond; STD-Short Term Debentures; ST-Short Term; Sub. Bonds-Subordinate Bonds; TB-Taxable
Bond; TFB-Tax Free Bond; TL-Term Loan; TOCD-triple option convertible debentures.
(Mumbai Rate Reporting Unit + 91 22 6180 7222 / 3317 7222 , E-mail at
rru.data@thomsonreuters.com)
Released: 2014-10-8T05:45:27.000Z
Document LBA0000020141008eaa8004sd
Asian-Pacific Stocks
Hong Kong Stocks Rise; Tokyo Falls
By Chao Deng   
408 words
8 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
27
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Hong Kong shares rose as the government and student protesters continued to seek a format for talks, while Japanese shares slid amid a weaker dollar.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rose 0.5% to 23422.52, advancing for a third consecutive session.
Brokerage IG said working conditions in Hong Kong are returning to normal, but the cost of the protests won't be known until trade-balance numbers and other activity gauges are released in early November.
Banks and property developers with strong exposure to the territory were mixed.
Chong Hing Bank jumped 4.5%, Standard Chartered climbed 2.4%, and Hang Seng Bank rose 1.4%, while developer New World Development improved by 1.3% and Cheung Kong (Holdings) moved up 1.1%.
However, Sino-British banking giant HSBC Holdings dipped 0.1%, and Henderson Land Development edged down 0.2%.
Most Hong Kong retailers rebounded further, with jeweler Luk Fook Holdings International advancing 2.5%, rival Chow Sang Sang Holdings International rising 0.5%, and clothing retailer I.T Ltd. adding 0.8%.
In Japan, the Nikkei Stock Average slipped 0.7% to 15783.83 as the dollar weakened. Among exporters, industrial robot maker Fanuc slipped 1.1%, air-conditioner maker Daikin Industries fell 1.9% and auto maker Fuji Heavy Industries lost 1.4%.
The Bank of Japan said it would maintain its position on monetary policy, as expected.
Elsewhere, Korea's Kospi closed up 0.2% at 1972.91.
Samsung Electronics rose as much as 3% in early trading in Seoul after the company forecast that its third-quarter operating profit more than halved from a year earlier. Samsung's shares had already been battered on expectations weak smartphone sales would hit profit. The shares closed up 1%.
In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.2% to 5284.20.
Rio Tinto was up 4.3% in Sydney, after the company said it rejected a takeover proposal by Glencore because it wasn't in the best interest of shareholders. The possible takeover inspired a rally in large mining stocks. BHP Billiton rose 1.7% and Fortescue Metals Group added 4.2%.
That wasn't enough, however, to outweigh broad-based declines among banks and retailers.
India's Sensex was down 1.1% at 26271.97.
---
Laura He contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141007eaa800012
Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
1,369 words
8 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
32
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Apple Takes Bite of Samsung
Samsung Electronics has gone from smartphone model to basket case. There could be worse to come.
Samsung said Tuesday its third-quarter operating profit likely fell 58% to 62% from a year earlier, which was even worse than already low analyst expectations. It was the fourth quarter in a row of declining operating profit. A detailed breakdown won't be available until Samsung releases full results, but the problem is clearly in the mobile division. Samsung said total smartphone shipments "increased marginally" in the period, but margins declined due to lower selling prices and higher marketing expenses.
Samsung's smartphone business is facing intense competitive pressure at the low end from Chinese handset makers, and at the high end from the iPhone.
With the iPhone 6, Apple essentially wiped out Samsung's distinguishing feature: a big screen size. And with the jumbo iPhone 6 Plus, Apple has now entered into the "phablet" segment that Samsung pioneered.
The third quarter included just 12 days of iPhone 6 sales. Expect the impact on Samsung in the fourth quarter to be much bigger. Nomura analyst C.W. Chung says Samsung's past few years of strong profitability in mobile devices were an anomaly, driven by Apple's premium pricing, which supported margins across the sector.
But without essential differentiators like Apple's, such as design cachet and a software ecosystem, Samsung is headed toward becoming a maker of commoditized hardware.
Mr. Chung sees operating margins for handsets and tablets declining to 11% in 2016 from 21% in 2013.
A bright spot for Samsung is its components business, including memory and logic chips as well as displays. Analysts expect components to account for more than 40% of operating profits next year, compared with around 30% this year. Samsung underscored its focus on this area on Monday, when it announced plans to invest $14.7 billion building a new chip plant in South Korea.
Components are less sexy than smartphones, but they can still make money, especially when you are the technology and scale leader, as Samsung is in memory chips, says Mark Newman of Bernstein Research. But Samsung's smartphone problems could blow back on the component business as well. The company's smartphones are the biggest customers for its application processor chips and cutting-edge organic light emitting diode displays.
Ultimately, focusing more on components will only intensify the trend toward becoming a commoditized hardware maker. For that, investors have plenty of other choices.
-- Aaron Back
Hilton Tosses the Waldorf
To Chinese Insurer Anbang
The Chinese insurer spending eye-popping sums on the Waldorf-Astoria should remember that luxury-hotel stays often come with hidden charges.
Hilton Worldwide Holdings struck a deal Monday to sell Manhattan's block-sized Waldorf-Astoria to Anbang Insurance Group, little known outside China, for $1.95 billion. It is a mega transaction for a famous hotel and comes after a string of Chinese purchases of U.S. and European real estate.
The symbolism of a Chinese company buying a New York landmark brings to mind memories of Mitsubishi Estate's 1989 purchase of Rockefeller Center. That deal, which ended up in bankruptcy court, came to symbolize the folly of Japanese overspending on U.S. assets. It is too easy to simply say history will repeat. But at such a price, Anbang will need a developer's acumen to make the deal succeed.
The grand though aged Waldorf needs a renovation, a task that will add substantially to Anbang's sticker price. Such an investment could be paid back with higher room rates or proceeds for the sale of rooms converted to condominiums. That Hilton itself preferred to skip the risk is a sign of the task ahead.
Still, an agreement for Hilton to manage the flagship property for another century ensures Anbang has expertise to guide it in the effort. The sale continues Hilton's exit from the capital-intensive business of owning real estate and its push to concentrate on sweeping up management and franchise fees from property owners.
Insurance companies have tended to invest in real estate as a diversification from bonds. With steady rental income and predictable costs, property can serve those ends. The problem is that hotels are most susceptible to economic downturns, with leases essentially running one night, compared with a decade in an office building filled with credit-rated tenants.
Anbang is paying $1.4 million per room, a substantial sum but less than the per-room price for recent transactions for the nearby Plaza Hotel and Carlyle Hotel. The deal is about 33 times the Waldorf's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the year through June. That compares with 15 times Hilton's overall Ebitda and a similar multiple for hotel property owner Host Hotels Corp. A premium is surely deserved for the impeccably located Waldorf. But to make it work, Anbang's use of debt will be critical.
-- Alex Frangos
Glencore's Approach Lacks Iron
If timing is everything in trading, Glencore has misfired with its July approach to Rio Tinto.
True, Rio's confirmation that the trader-cum-miner expressed interest in a merger actually highlights the Anglo-Australian miner's strategic quandary. Rio has focused on cutting costs and improving free cash flow. It has pledged to raise returns to shareholders next year.
It isn't clear what happens next. Rio, which already has rejected pursuing conversations with Glencore, isn't diversified: 80% of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization come from iron ore, a commodity whose price is under serious pressure.
Even so, absent a chunky premium, there isn't much right now to bring Rio to the negotiating table.
The iron-ore price is down 40% this year, but the jury is still out on whether the strategy of the largest iron-ore miners is based on logic or, as Glencore Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg claims, on lunacy. Rio, BHP Billiton and Vale have all expanded their output, adding tons into an oversupplied market. Boosting production to force higher-cost rivals out of the market, though, could mean the market returns to an effective oligopoly.
Meanwhile, Rio's future could be as a cash cow, shoveling dirt at its low-cost iron-ore pits. Thanks partly to Rio's expansion of its Pilbara operations in Western Australia, its cash flows should continue growing through iron ore's weakness. Mr. Glasenberg may scoff but brownfield iron-ore growth also offers enviable returns: Bank of America Merrill Lynch put the return on capital employed for BHP Billiton's latest expansion at 100%, even before the miner reduced the costs involved.
The risk is that iron ore crashes, vindicating Mr. Glasenberg's view of the world, and Rio, stymied by its lack of diversification, shelves plans to buy back shares. In that case, Glencore would likely find shareholders receptive.
If Glencore returns, Rio's board should insist on a proper takeover premium. Glencore may have the diversified portfolio and the vaunted management team, but Rio has the stronger balance sheet, the higher-quality resource base and the more profitable assets.
That would leave Glencore to make the case for the value of a combination. Running Rio Tinto's iron ore through Glencore's marketing machine could be worth $1 to $2 per metric ton, reckons Citi. But that could be tougher in an oversupplied market. Moreover, digging and shipping 300 million tons of dirt, compared with Glencore's iron-ore trading of perhaps 40 million tons, may not lend itself to clever arbitrage as well as other commodities.
Yes, there would be some cost savings. But Rio already has chopped nearly $4 billion in costs. The synergies from putting together Glencore and Rio's coal operations in Australia's Hunter Valley could be found through a joint venture, without creating a $160 billion company and paying a control premium.
Putting a price on Rio would allow Glencore to force the issue. Otherwise, it is the iron-ore market that will determine if and when this deal's time will come.
-- Helen Thomas
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141007eaa800003
 Weak Smartphone Sales Hurt Samsung
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 7 October 2014, 808 words, (English)
Summary: Samsung warns of more losses; HP shares end up on split talks; GT Advanced Technologies share plummet and Beepi raises money. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories and more.
Document MMSAJW0020141007eaa700001
 Samsung Girds for Cost Cuts
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 7 October 2014, 666 words, (English)
Summary: Samsung Electronics is bracing for more cost cuts and technology stocks fall sharply. Tom Ortuso reports.
Good evening this is only data briefing from the Wall Street Journal for Tuesday October 7 pump some Ortiz cells. In the tech ...
Document MMSAJW0020141007eaa70002t
 Samsung seeks Hong Kong arbitration after Microsoft lawsuit
Reuters India, 12:49, 7 October 2014, 424 words, Nate Raymond, (English)
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) initiated an arbitration proceeding in Hong Kong against Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O) on Tuesday, amid ongoing U.S. litigation over smartphone patent royalties.
Document WC45421020141008eaa700023
 Korean Director Tackles Youth Loneliness in Feature Debut
WSJ Blogs, 20:21, 6 October 2014, 333 words, By Jeyup S. Kwaak, (English)
A teenager neglected by his family and society is pushed to the edge in "Set Me Free," a South Korean film that premiered at this year's Busan International Film Festival.
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa70005l
 Is Samsung Already Feeling the Apple Effect?
The Wall Street Journal WSJ Lunchbreak, 7 October 2014, 618 words, (English)
Summary: Samsung¡¦s third-quarter operating profit likely fell as much as 62% from a year earlier. How much is this due to Apple? Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster and Tanya Rivero discuss. Photo: Getty
Document MMSAWI0020141008eaa700001
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Pummeled Amid Market Jumble
MoneyBeat, 7 October 2014, 986 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141007eaa7000xd
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Pummeled Amid Market Jumble
WSJ Blogs, 17:34, 7 October 2014, 951 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 down 1.5% at 1935.08. DJIA down 1.6% at 16719.33. Nasdaq Comp down 1.6% at 4385.20. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.352%. Nymex crude oil down 1.65% at $88.85. Gold up 0.4% at ...
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa7008sp
 5 Things To Read Today: Turkey Calls for Ground Troops Against Islamic State, Nobel Prize in Physics Awarded for Light Source, And More
WSJ Blogs, 15:01, 7 October 2014, 613 words, (English)
#1: Turkey¡¦s President Calls for Ground Troops to Fight Islamic State
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday the?besieged Syrian city of Kobani?was in imminent danger of falling to Islamic State and called on the U.S.-led ...
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa7007hk
Page One
What¡¦s News: Business & Finance
227 words
6 October 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
The NBA¡¦s TV pact with Disney and Turner will triple the annual fees the league receives. Critics say the deal will lead to higher cable bills.
Turner said it is cutting 10% of its staff, part of a plan aimed at freeing up funds for programming and technology.
H-P confirmed it is splitting up, with one half continuing PC and printing operations and the other selling products and services to big firms.
Ex-Treasury Secretary Paulson defended the 2008 AIG bailout, calling the package harsh but necessary.
Hackers who breached J.P. Morgan¡¦s computer network earlier this year also tried to infiltrate other financial firms.
Apple¡¦s sapphire supplier filed for bankruptcy after the tech firm unveiled iPhones with glass, not sapphire, screens.
Stocks slipped as investors weighed U.S. growth against a slowdown abroad. The Dow fell 17.78 points to 16991.91.
Samsung estimated third-quarter profit plunged 58% on weak smartphone sales.
Hilton is selling the Waldorf Astoria hotel to China¡¦s Anbang for a record $1.95 billion.
Coffee prices surged to a 2.5-year high on concerns over dry weather in Brazil.
Ex-NYSE chief Niederauer is joining a firm that helps private companies raise funds.
Glencore approached Rio Tinto in July about a takeover but the bid was rejected.
Document WSJO000020141007eaa70025u
Markets
Apple Takes a Bite From Samsung
By Aaron Back 
421 words
6 October 2014
23:53
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Samsung Electronics has gone from smartphone model to basket case. There could be worse to come.
Samsung said Tuesday its third-quarter operating profit likely fell 58% to 62% from a year earlier, which was even worse than already low analyst expectations. It was the fourth quarter in a row of declining operating profit. A detailed breakdown won¡¦t be available until Samsung releases full results, but the problem is clearly in the mobile division. Samsung said total smartphone shipments ¡§increased marginally¡¨ in the period, but margins declined due to lower selling prices and higher marketing expenses.
Samsung¡¦s smartphone business is facing intense competitive pressure at the low-end from Chinese handset makers, and at the high-end from the iPhone. With the iPhone 6, Apple essentially wiped out Samsung¡¦s distinguishing feature: a big screen size. And with the jumbo iPhone 6 Plus, Apple has now entered into the ¡§phablet¡¨ segment that Samsung pioneered.
The third quarter included just 12 days of iPhone 6 sales. Expect the impact on Samsung in the fourth quarter to be much bigger. Nomura analyst C.W. Chung says Samsung¡¦s past few years of strong profitability in mobile devices were an anomaly, driven by Apple¡¦s premium pricing, which supported margins across the sector.
But without essential differentiators like Apple¡¦s, such as design cachet and a software ecosystem, Samsung is headed toward becoming a maker of commoditized hardware. Mr. Chung sees operating margins for handsets and tablets declining to 11% in 2016 from 21% in 2013.
A bright spot for Samsung is its components business, including memory and logic chips as well as displays. Analysts expect components to account for more than 40% of operating profits next year, compared with around 30% this year. Samsung underscored its focus on this area on Monday, when it announced plans to invest $14.7 billion building a new chip plant in South Korea.
Components are less sexy than smartphones, but they can still make money, especially when you are the technology and scale leader, as Samsung is in memory chips, says Mark Newman of Bernstein Research. But Samsung¡¦s smartphone problems could blow back on the component business as well. The company¡¦s smartphones are the biggest customers for its application processor chips and cutting-edge organic light emitting diode displays.
Ultimately, focusing more on components will only intensify the trend toward becoming a commoditized hardware maker. For that, investors have plenty of other choices.
Document WSJO000020141007eaa7002gx
 SolidFire Raises $82 Million for Pooled Storage on Flash Memory
WSJ Blogs, 07:45, 7 October 2014, 585 words, By Deborah Gage, (English)
Storage based on flash memory, which consumes less power while reading data much faster than traditional hard disk drives, is one of the more promising new technologies for handling enormous amounts of data.
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa7005mu
 Samsung brings arbitration against Microsoft after patent royalty lawsuit
Reuters, 10:19, 7 October 2014, 235 words, (English)
NEW YORK Oct 7 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics initiated an arbitration proceeding in Hong Kong against Microsoft Corp on Tuesday, amid ongoing U.S. litigation over smartphone patent royalties.
Document WCLBA00020141007eaa7004n3
 Samsung Elec heads for annual profit fall after weak Q3 guidance
Reuters India, 22:24, 6 October 2014, 662 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is heading for its first annual earnings drop since 2011 after it revealed its July-September profit would be the lowest in more than three years and said short-term prospects for smartphones ...
Document WC45421020141007eaa70001n
Flash-storage player SolidFire raises $82 million
By Sarah McBride   
245 words
7 October 2014
08:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 7 (Reuters) - SolidFire, a flash-storage company, said it has raised $82 million in new funding, a sign of the increasing appeal of technology that helps companies store data in new ways.
The cash will help the Boulder, Colorado-based company expand, with profitability expected in the next "couple of years," Chief Executive Dave Wright said in an interview.
SolidFire and rivals such as Pure Storage are taking on companies such as EMC and NetApp that built their reputations on disk-based storage. The newcomers rely on "flash," or chip-based storage, which generally works faster than older technologies.
Flash helps products integrate well with aspects of the cloud, in which data is accessed via the Internet rather than from on-site hardware. Companies are racing to adopt cloud technology because of its flexibility and lower costs compared with older methods.
"Our ability to leverage flash at cloud scale, that ultimately is what sets us up for long-term success," Wright said.
Greenspring Associates, an Owings Mill, Maryland-based fund, led the financing round with Silicon Valley Bank and an unnamed sovereign wealth fund. Existing investors NEA, Novak Biddle, Samsung Ventures and Valhalla Partners participated.
Earlier this year, competitor Pure Storage raised $225 million. Flash-based Nimble Storage and Violin Memory held initial public offerings last year.
(Reporting by Sarah McBride; Editing by Leslie Adler) 
Released: 2014-10-7T14:00:00.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa700cqx
 The Morning Download: CIOs Driving Digital Leadership, but Not as Much as They Think
CIO Report, 07:11, 7 October 2014, 2249 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141007eaa70002t
Markets
Samsung, Rio Tinto Shares Rise as Asian Markets Close Mixed
By Chao Deng 
433 words
7 October 2014
00:38
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Samsung Electronics Co. and Rio Tinto PLC were two of the main gainers among Asian stocks on Tuesday as markets closed mixed, with Hong Kong¡¦s Hang Seng Index up 0.5% as the government and student protesters continued to seek a format for talks.
Samsung¡¦s shares rose as much as 3% in early trading in Seoul after the company forecast that its third-quarter operating profit more than halved from a year earlier. Samsung¡¦s shares had already been battered on expectations weak smartphone sales would hit profit. The shares closed up 1.0%.
¡§Expectations have been lowered to a point where a 4-trillion-won operating profit would relieve investors,¡¨ said Lee Seung-woo, an analyst with IBK Securities in Seoul.
He added that local brokerages have been selling Samsung shares heavily recently and they don¡¦t have much of the stock in their portfolios, while foreign investors seeking long-term gains are also buying Samsung following the recent slide.
Korea¡¦s Kospi closed up 0.2% at 1972.91.
In Australia, Rio Tinto was up 4.3%, after the company said it rejected a takeover proposal by Glencore as it wasn¡¦t in the best interest of shareholders. The possible takeover inspired a rally in large mining stocks. BHP Billiton Ltd. rose 1.7% and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. added 4.2%.
That wasn¡¦t enough to outweigh broad-based declines among banks and retailers in Australia. National Australia Bank Ltd. fell 1.0% and Commonwealth Bank of Australia lost 0.5%, pushing the S&P ASX 200 down 0.2% to 5284.20.
Stocks in Australia have fallen around 6% since the start of September, as slowing growth in China squeezes prices for commodity exports such as iron ore.
The performance of stock markets elsewhere in Asia was mixed.
Hong Kong¡¦s Hang Seng Index rose 0.5% to 23422.52. Brokerage IG said working conditions in Hong Kong are returning to normal, but the cost of the protests won¡¦t be known until trade balance numbers and other activity gauges are released in early November.
Japan¡¦s Nikkei Stock Average slipped 0.7% to 15,783.83 amid a weaker dollar. Among exporters, industrial robot maker Fanuc Corp. slipped 1.1%, air conditioner maker Daikin Industries Ltd. fell 1.9%, and auto maker Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. lost 1.4%. Earlier the Bank of Japan said it would maintain its position on monetary policy, as expected.
Ross Kelly contributed to this article.
Document WSJO000020141007eaa6000xe
 Morning MoneyBeat Europe: More Weak German Data Will Pressure ECB
MoneyBeat, 7 October 2014, 844 words, David Cottle, (English)
Please feel free to send this email to friends and colleagues?and include this link so they can sign up to receive it for free too.?You are receiving Morning MoneyBeat Europe. You can also sign up for?U.S. and Asian editions here. Good ...
Document BC08551020141007eaa70002u
BRIEF-Opera Software's browser to power Samsung smartwatch
55 words
7 October 2014
01:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 7 (Reuters) - Opera Software says:
* Opera Mini to become first web browser on Samsung Gear S smartwatch.
* Opera Mini compresses web pages so that browsing is made faster
* Does not provide value for the deal Further company coverage: 
Released: 2014-10-7T07:12:11.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa7005o8
 BRIEF-Opera Software's browser to power Samsung smartwatch
Reuters, 01:12, 7 October 2014, 105 words, (English)
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual ...
Document WCLBA00020141007eaa7001xj
RPT-PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 7
696 words
7 October 2014
00:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Repeats to fix formatting)
Oct 7 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories in the Wall Street Journal. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
* The U.S. Supreme Court effectively expanded the right of gay marriage to more than half the nation Monday as it let stand lower-court rulings that struck down bans in five states. (http://on.wsj.com/1ttRDsc)
* After months bemoaning Democrats' financial advantage, the National Republican Senatorial Committee collected a record $15.5 million in September - more than doubling its August haul of $6 million. (http://on.wsj.com/1BKTNrG)
* A group of volunteer scientists and immigrant-rights activists are helping officials in Texas identify unknown migrants who die each year trying to sneak across the U.S.-Mexico border. (http://on.wsj.com/ZPAl1x)
* Latin America is on track this year to post its slowest rate of annual growth since 2009, when the global financial crisis began to be felt in the region, the World Bank said Tuesday. The bank cut its growth forecast for the region by nearly half to 1.2 percent, following expansions of 2.4 percent and 3 percent in the previous two years. (http://on.wsj.com/1q7y7j8)
* Samsung Electronics Co estimated its third-quarter operating profit more than halved from a year earlier, hit by weak smartphone sales, forcing the company to rely more on its chip business to drive future earnings growth. As stiff competition from Chinese vendors continues to pressure its mobile division profit, investors have sold off Samsung shares on concerns about its outlook. (http://on.wsj.com/1CQzpI0)
* Hackers who breached JP Morgan's computer network earlier this year also tried to infiltrate a number of other financial institutions, but the companies believe they were unsuccessful. (http://on.wsj.com/1q7AJxp)
* Glencore approached Rio Tinto in July about a takeover that would have been among the biggest deals in mining history, but its proposal was rejected. (http://on.wsj.com/1s75Fnb)
* U.S. regulators on Monday said they would review the overall process for deciding whether big financial firms are "systemically important." The move, announced at a meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, showed how the group of top U.S. regulators is trying to fend off criticism from the financial industry and members of Congress while also establishing itself as the prime U.S. watchdog for spotting financial-system risks. (http://on.wsj.com/1nXV6D8)
* Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc is selling its flagship hotel, the historic Waldorf Astoria in Manhattan, for $1.95 billion, illustrating the heated competition - particularly among foreigners - for famous luxury properties that only a few years ago struggled to fill their rooms. (http://on.wsj.com/10HOMVs)
* Regulators are in talks with Deutsche Bank over a possible settlement of hundreds of millions of dollars to resolve rate-rigging allegations. (http://on.wsj.com/1uvmd8Z)
* Blackstone Group LP and Carlyle Group LP are exploring new ways to buy global companies in partnership with major investors, including potentially making acquisitions outside their existing funds, according to people familiar with the firms' thinking. (http://on.wsj.com/1q3XRgr)
* Apple Inc last year said it would invest $700 million to build the world's biggest artificial-sapphire factory. On Monday, the company running that factory - GT Advanced Technologies Inc - filed for bankruptcy protection. The bankruptcy filing comes less than a month after Apple unveiled new iPhones with glass screens, rather than sapphire. (http://on.wsj.com/ZaB7oC)
* Live Nation Entertainment Inc is in talks to buy a majority of C3 Presents, the promotion company behind festivals such as Lollapalooza and Austin City Limits, according to a person familiar with the matter. (http://on.wsj.com/1xjOO0x)
* After spending seven years persuading companies to go public, Duncan Niederauer is switching sides. The former chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange's parent is taking a part-time role at Battery East Group LLC, a small firm that helps private companies raise money from big investors. (http://on.wsj.com/1nXUJsj) (Compiled by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore) 
Released: 2014-10-7T06:35:35.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa7005c3
Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance
237 words
7 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
The NBA's TV pact with Disney and Turner will triple the annual fees the league receives. Critics say the deal will lead to higher cable bills.
Turner said it is cutting 10% of its staff, part of a plan aimed at freeing up funds for programming and technology.
---
H-P confirmed it is splitting up, with one half continuing PC and printing operations and the other selling products and services to big firms.
---
Ex-Treasury Secretary Paulson defended the 2008 AIG bailout, calling the package harsh but necessary.
---
Hackers who breached J.P. Morgan's computer network earlier this year also tried to infiltrate other financial firms.
---
Apple's sapphire supplier filed for bankruptcy after the tech firm unveiled iPhones with glass, not sapphire, screens.
---
Stocks slipped as investors weighed U.S. growth against a slowdown abroad. The Dow fell 17.78 points to 16991.91.
---
Samsung estimated third-quarter profit plunged 58% on weak smartphone sales.
---
Hilton is selling the Waldorf Astoria hotel to China's Anbang for a record $1.95 billion.
---
Coffee prices surged to a 2 1/2-year high on concerns over dry weather in Brazil.
---
Ex-NYSE chief Niederauer is joining a firm that helps private companies raise funds.
---
Glencore approached Rio Tinto in July about a takeover but the bid was rejected.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141007eaa700035
 Morning MoneyBeat Europe: More Weak German Data Will Pressure ECB
WSJ Blogs, 01:11, 7 October 2014, 846 words, By David Cottle, (English)
Please feel free to send this email to friends and colleagues?and include this link so they can sign up to receive it for free too.?You are receiving Morning MoneyBeat Europe. You can also sign up for?U.S. and Asian editions here.
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa70012y
 At Samsung, Chairman¡¦s Health Also Weighs
WSJ Blogs, 00:10, 7 October 2014, 263 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
At Samsung, it isn¡¦t just the plunging earnings weighing on the minds of its senior executives.
Chairman Lee Kun-hee¡¦s health and whether he¡¦ll recover is of utmost concern to top aides at the conglomerate, analysts say.
Document WCWSJB0020141007eaa7000xd
Foreigners net sell S.Korean stocks in Sept - first time in 6 months
288 words
6 October 2014
22:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 7 (Reuters) - Foreigners turned net sellers of South Korean stocks for the first time in six months in September as European investors dumped shares, the country's financial regulator said on Tuesday.               
Offshore investors sold a net 0.5 trillion won ($470 million) worth of South Korean shares last month, according to the Financial Supervisory Service, compared to 2.5 trillion won  of net purchases in August.               
Investors in the United Kingdom were the biggest sellers of South Korean stocks in September, offloading a net 1.0 trillion won worth in their second straight month of disposals.               
Market participants in Germany and Norway were also net sellers of 0.4 trillion won worth and 0.3 trillion won worth of shares last month, respectively.               
Japanese and U.S. investors braked the fall, net buying 1.0 trillion won and 0.8 trillion won worth of South Korean stocks in September.               
Although the FSS did not give an explanation for the selloff, concerns over third-quarter profits of chaebols (family-owned conglomerates) in South Korea have recently led foreign investors to offload some of their investments in Asia's fourth-largest economy, analysts say.               
Samsung Electronics' third quarter profit guidance lent extra weight to those concerns after it revealed earlier on Tuesday its July-September profit would be the lowest in more than three years and said short-term prospects for smartphones were uncertain.               
Meanwhile, the FSS data showed foreign investors boosted their holdings of South Korean bonds by 0.5 trillion won in September, compared to August when they reduced their holdings by 82 billion won.               
Released: 2014-10-7T04:00:00.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa700338
BRIEF-Samsung Heavy says wins 472 billion won order
46 words
6 October 2014
19:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 7 (Reuters) - Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd  :               
* Says wins 472 billion Korean won ($443.69 million) order to build three tankers from an unnamed firm based in Europe               
Released: 2014-10-7T01:07:34.000Z
Document LBA0000020141007eaa70005n
Samsung Eyes Growth Beyond Smartphones
By Min-Jeong Lee   
500 words
7 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL -- Samsung Electronics Co. plans to invest 15.6 trillion won ($14.7 billion) to build a new cutting-edge chip-manufacturing plant in South Korea as it seeks to maintain its lead in memory chips and grow beyond smartphones.
Samsung's chip unit has become increasingly important to its profit growth as its smartphone business -- which accounts for about 60% of its total operating profit -- continues to suffer from intensifying competition from low-cost Chinese handset makers. Analysts expect demand for Samsung's memory chips to stay strong for the rest of this year amid tight global supply.
Samsung said Monday that construction of the new chip plant will begin next year, with operations to start in 2017. The new plant will be located in Pyeongtaek, a city south of Seoul.
Samsung hasn't yet decided what types of chips it will produce at the plant. Samsung's competition with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. is likely to intensify in coming years as they compete to make logic chips for Apple Inc.'s iPhones. Logic chips are semiconductors that process decisions, as opposed to storing memory, to operate gadgets.
Microprocessors, considered to be the brain of a smartphone, are a type of logic chip.
The investment "will significantly influence the shaping of Samsung's future semiconductor business," Kwon Oh-hyun, co-chief and a vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, said.
Samsung typically outspends rivals when investing in high-tech chip-manufacturing facilities.
The ability to spend heavily, thanks to its hefty cash pile of $60 billion, has allowed the company to maintain its lead in memory-chip production.
By moving quickly to finer chip-process technology, Samsung is able to cut chip-manufacturing costs.
Samsung is the world's biggest producer of dynamic random access memory chips, used in personal computers and smartphones.
It also makes NAND flash-memory chips, which are used in mobile devices including digital cameras.
The investment comes as Samsung, which is to report earnings estimates for the third-quarter Tuesday, is expected to say that its operating profit likely halved from a year earlier due to the poor performance of its mobile business.
Some analysts expect the company's chip-division profits to exceed mobile phones for the first time in three years.
Samsung posted an operating profit of 10.2 trillion won in the third quarter of 2013. About a third of its profits come from chips, televisions and home appliances.
Last week Samsung, moving to capitalize on cheap labor costs, said it would invest $560 million for a new TV plant in Vietnam, saying that the complex will be used for addressing mid- to long-term demand for consumer electronics globally, including emerging markets.
In South Korea, Samsung has memory-chip production lines in Hwaseong and facilities in Giheung that focus on logic chips. The company also has chip plants in China and the U.S.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141006eaa70000u
 Hewlett-Packard Plans A Big Split
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 6 October 2014, 467 words, (English)
Summary: Hewlett-Packard plans to split into two separate companies. Tesla Motors will unveil some new features for its Model-S sedan. And Ebay will let members bid on items at auction houses. The Wall Street Journal's Bruce Vale has those ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141006eaa6000m9
 Hewlett-Packard Shares Rise
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 6 October 2014, 463 words, (English)
Summary: Hewlett-Packard shares rose Monday ... the comapny plans to separate its personal computer and printer business from its corporate hardware and services operations.
Document MMSAJW0020141006eaa60002t
 Hewlett Packard to Split Into Two Companies
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 6 October 2014, 749 words, (English)
Summary: HP plans to split into two companies; Facebook could create health apps; Samsung investing in a new chip plant and new iPads could be announced soon. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories and more.
Document MMSAJW0020141006eaa600001
US STOCKS-Chipmakers slide after Samsung's big investment
273 words
6 October 2014
11:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
NEW YORK, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Micron Technologies was leading a slide in the PHLX semiconductor index on Monday after Samsung unveiled plans to spend $14.7 billion on a new chip facility.
Samsung's move marks a heavy push towards its semiconductor business to bolster profits as its smartphone dominance dwindles.
Shares of Micron were down 5.3 percent in early afternoon trading, on track for their largest daily percentage decline in more than a month. However, the stock's intrinsic valuation was already 30.5 percent below StarMine projections at its close on Friday, based on forward five-year earnings growth expectations.
The SOX index was down 1 percent.
Chipmaker Toshiba Corp fell 2.6 percent overnight in Tokyo and SK Hynix Inc lost 5.1 percent in Seoul.
Looking at the broader market, energy and consumer discretionary shares were weighing the most on the S&P 500 with the benchmark index struggling against technical resistance at its 50-day moving average in the 1,975 area.
Index snapshot at 12:03 EDT (1603 GMT):
* S&P 500 was falling 4.67 points, or 0.24 percent.
* Nasdaq Comp was losing 20.91 points, or 0.47 percent.
* Dow industrials was dropping 25.63 points, or 0.15 percent.
* Russell 2000 was falling 8.11 points, or 0.73 percent.
* S&P MidCap was dropping 3.49 points, or 0.26 percent.
* S&P SmallCap was losing 4.49 points, or 0.71 percent.
(Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Nick Zieminski)
Released: 2014-10-9T16:09:54.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600enw
BUZZ-U.S. Stocks on the Move-Durata, Sunesis, Alcobra, Unilife
1,410 words
6 October 2014
08:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(For faster updates on individual market-movers, Eikon users please use search string "STXBZ US"; for the Day Ahead newsletter, http://link.reuters.com/mex49s; for the Morning News Call newsletter, http://link.reuters.com/nex49s)
U.S. stock index e-mini futures were up on Monday: Dow Jones industrial average futures were up 0.43 percent at 16,993, S&P 500 futures were up 0.42 percent at 1,968.5 and Nasdaq 100 futures were up 0.35 percent at 4,030.25.
** DURATA THERAPEUTICS, Friday close $13.88, +77.02 pct premarket
** ACTAVIS PLC, Friday close $246.07, -100.00 pct premarket
Drugmaker Actavis said it would acquire Durata Therapeutics in a deal valued at about $675 million. Actavis' offer of $23 per share represents a premium of 66 percent to Durata stock's closing price on Friday.
** SUNESIS PHARMACEUTICALS Inc, Friday close $6.64, -69.88 pct premarket
The drug developer said its experimental cancer treatment did not meet its main goal in a late-stage trial in patients with refractory acute myeloid leukemia, a type of bone marrow cancer.
** ALCOBRA LTD, Friday close $14.11, -43.66 pct premarket
The company said its drug to treat adult attention deficit disorder, Metadoxine, cleared a late-stage study, but after excluding data from four of 300 patients who reacted positively to a placebo. Company says "extreme placebo responses" inconsistent with reports in previous trials.
Through Friday's close, stock had fallen 19 pct since Sept. 19 when company said it completed a follow-up on patients in the study. Shares were set to open at a one-and-a-half-year low on Monday.
** CAREFUSION CORP, Friday close $46.17, +23.95 pct premarket
** BECTON DICKINSON & CO, Friday close $115.84, +7.04 pct premarket
Medical equipment supplier Becton Dickinson agreed to buy CareFusion Corp, a maker of infusion pumps and other medical devices, for $12.2 billion in cash and stock, marking the latest multibillion-dollar healthcare sector deal. Becton said on Sunday it would pay $58.00 a share - $49.00 in cash and 0.0777 of its share - for each share of CareFusion. This would represent a premium of 26 percent to the closing price on Friday.
** PETROBRAS SA, Friday close $13.97, +19.47 pct premarket
** VALE SA, Friday close $11.02, +4.72 pct premarket
** COMPANIA NACIONAL, Friday close $3.57, +7.00 pct premarket
** GOL LINHAS, Friday close $5.01, +11.78 pct premarket
** GAFISA SA, Friday close $2.28, +7.89 pct premarket
** ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA, Friday close $14.09, +14.48 pct premarket
** BANCO BRADESCO, Friday close $14.17, +16.23 pct premarket
U.S.-listed shares of Brazilian companies rose in premarket trading on Monday, following an unexpectedly competitive runoff campaign for Brazil's presidency. The election is between incumbent Dilma Rousseff and her pro-business rival Aecio Neves, who rode a late surge in support in the final days before the first round of voting.
** RADIOSHACK CORP, Friday close $0.99, -7.07 pct premarket
Trading in the shares of cash-strapped electronics retailer resumed early on Monday after being halted on Friday at 9:15 a.m. Company said on Friday a group of investors led by Standard General LP replaced GE Capital as lead lender of its asset-based credit facility. Investors are also providing $120 million to be used to cash collateralize letters of credit. RadioShack said it would seek to convert the $120 million into equity "in the coming months".
** HEWLETT-PACKARD CO, Friday close $35.2, +5.14 pct premarket
Hewlett-Packard Co said it would split into two listed companies, separating its computer and printer businesses from its faster-growing corporate hardware and services operations. HP said its shareholders would own a stake in both businesses through a tax-free transaction next year.
** MICRON TECHNOLOGY, Friday close $33.94, -2.27 pct premarket
The company's larger rival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd will invest $14.7 bln in a new chip facility
Samsung expects its production capacity to rise by a "low double-digit percentage"
** UNILIFE CORPORATION, Friday close $2.17, +52.07 pct premarket
The company will be the sole supplier of wearable injections to Sanofi for at least 15 years. Unilife expects to receive about $50 million from customization programs on Sanofi molecules and indications.
** CONN'S INC Friday close $32.94, +6.56 pct premarket
Electronics and home appliance retailer Conn's Inc said it would consider selling itself as part of a review of strategic options. Conn's also adopted a poison pill takeover defense but said it was not in response to any specific takeover bid or other proposal to acquire the company.
** TEKMIRA PHARMACEUTICALS CORP, Friday close $29.53, -8.16 pct premarket
Analysts at Leerink Partners downgrades Tekmira's stock to "market perform" from "outperform," citing valuation and limited visibility on stock-moving catalysts near term.
Analysts said significant profits from the company's Ebola treatment, TKM-Ebola, is now "baked" into the stock.
** MAZOR ROBOTICS LTD, Friday close $11.25, +7.38 pct premarket
The Israeli surgical equipment maker said it sold five Renaissance systems, robotic-assisted spine surgery equipment, in third quarter ended Sept. 30. Company had earlier reported orders for four renaissance systems
** YAHOO INC, Friday close $41.03, +0.41 pct premarket
Yahoo plans to invest a part of the proceeds from the Alibaba Group Holding stake sale in mobile app Snapchat, which lets users send messages that disappear after a few seconds, the Wall Street Journal said.
** NOVARTIS AG, Friday close $92.37
Swiss pharma group Novartis said it would work with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co to test the U.S. drugmaker's immuno-oncology drug Opdivo in combination with three of its own experimental lung cancer drugs.
** KOSMOS ENERGY LTD, Friday close $9.85
The company is set to sign a $400 million "farm-in" agreement with Senegal's state-owned hydrocarbon firm Petrosen and Timis Corp to take a 60 percent stake in the Cayar and St. Louis offshore blocks that they operate, a draft Petrosen document seen by Reuters on Saturday showed.
** WALT DISNEY CO, Friday close $88.45, +0.34 pct premarket
Euro Disney said it had agreed a 1 billion euro funding deal backed by its largest shareholder, Walt Disney, which includes a share sale and a debt restructuring, to allow it to invest in the business.
Euro Disney, the entertainment resort based in an eastern suburb of Paris, is 40 percent owned by parent Walt Disney and 10 percent by the Saudi prince AlWaleed bin Talal.
** VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC, Friday close $49.71, +0.42 pct premarket
** OUTERWALL INC, Friday close $57.63, -2.83 pct premarket
Redbox Instant, a streaming video service operated by Verizon and Outerwall Inc's OUTR.O Redbox, will shut down next week because the venture has not been as successful as hoped, the two companies announced Saturday.
** METLIFE INC, Friday close $53.34, -0.06 pct premarket
The insurer said on Friday it would fight a plan by the U.S. risk council to designate it as a firm whose demise could risk global finance, a tag that brings far greater regulatory scrutiny.
The company had asked the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to call a meeting at which it could give written and oral evidence of why it disagreed with the proposed determination, it said in a regulatory filing.
** HILTON WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS INC, Friday close $24.32, +2.59 pct premarket
The group said it would sell the landmark Waldorf Astoria New York hotel to Chinese insurer Anbang Insurance Group Co Ltd for about $1.95 billion.
** GENERAL MOTORS CO , Friday close $33.76
General Motors said it was recalling 524,384 cars and sport utility vehicles globally in two actions dealing with potential latch problems and loose parts and would stop sales of two new truck models with potential air bag defects. The latest recalls, which involve Cadillac and Saab SUVs and Chevrolet Spark small cars, bring the number by the No. 1 U.S. automaker to 71 this year, affecting almost 30 million vehicles. (Compiled by Amrutha Penumudi in Bangalore; Edited by Don Sebastian)
Released: 2014-10-9T13:24:01.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600bt1
BUZZ-Micron Technology: Rival Samsung to invest $14.7 bln in a chip plant
80 words
6 October 2014
08:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
** Memory chipmaker Micron's shares down 2.3 pct at $33.15 premarket
** Company's larger rival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd to invest $14.7 bln in a new chip facility
** Samsung expects its production capacity to rise by a "low double-digit percentage"
** Up to Friday's close, Micron's stock had risen about 56 percent this year
Released: 2014-10-9T13:03:08.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600b9l
BUZZ-Nokia rises 4 pct on patent royalties news, shares hit 44-mo high
152 words
6 October 2014
04:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 6 (Reuters) - ** Shares of Nokia gain 4.2 pct to hit their highest since Feb 2011 on hopes over the value of its patents portfolio.
** Microsoft on Saturday said Samsung Electronics paid it as much as $1 bln in smartphone patent royalties last year under a deal regarding technology used by Android mobile system.
** Nordea analyst Sami Sarkamies says the amount encouraging for Nokia which still holds a large patent portfolio dating back to the time it was the world's top handset maker.
** Nokia sold its mobile phone business to Microsoft in April for 5.6 billion euros.
** Nokia shares have risen 24 pct in the last 3 months & are up a whopping 450% since their July 2012 lows.
(Reuters Messaging: jussi.rosendahl.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net)
Released: 2014-10-9T09:17:34.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa60073l
Samsung Electronics says Q3 profit likely down 60 pct on year
159 words
6 October 2014
18:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 7 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd on Tuesday said operating profit likely fell 59.7 percent in the July-September period to 4.1 trillion won ($3.8 billion) as earnings from its market-leading smartphone division likely continued to shrink.
The guidance, released ahead of final third-quarter figures due around end-October, was lower than a 5.6 trillion won mean estimate of 43 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
It would mark the company's fourth consecutive quarter of declining operating profit.
Samsung also said third-quarter sales likely fell 20.5 percent to 47 trillion won, compared with a mean forecast for 50.9 trillion won by the Thomson Reuter I/B/E/S survey.
(1 US dollar = 1,068.7500 Korean won) (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) 
Released: 2014-10-7T00:37:25.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600prz
 Samsung Electronics says Q3 profit likely down 60 pct on year
Reuters, 18:37, 6 October 2014, 248 words, (English)
SEOUL Oct 7 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd on Tuesday said operating profit likely fell 59.7 percent in the July-September period to 4.1 trillion won ($3.8 billion) as earnings from its market-leading smartphone division likely ...
Document WCLBA00020141007eaa600004
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: For U.S. Stocks, a ¡¥Quiet Melt¡¦
MoneyBeat, 6 October 2014, 861 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141006eaa6000jh
Kids Love Apple's iPad More Than Disney, Nickelodeon, YouTube: Survey
By Todd Spangler   
321 words
6 October 2014
16:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - Move over, Elsa.
Apple's iPad is the No. 1 brand among children 6-12, beating out Disney, Nickelodeon, YouTube, Netflix, Toys 'R' Us, McDonald's, and multiple snack-food brands, according to a new survey.
Kids see the iPad as the all-in-one digital tool, according to the three-month survey by Tennessee-based consulting firm Smarty Parts. The 2014 survey results represent the culmination of the "tablet takeover," according to Smarty Pants president Wynne Tyree.
"Kids increasingly turn to iPad for games, TV shows, videos, books, homework help and communicating with friends and family," he said.
In that vein, digital entertainment as a category has seen a surge among kids and families, with brands such as Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Instant Video, Android and Samsung Electronics posting notable increases in kids' awareness, popularity and love for a brand. The firm noted that, along with iPad, those devices and services provide entertainment that is "always on."
Over all, on the study iPad was tops with a weighted score of 898 out of 1000. The Apple tablet was followed by Hershey's (894), Oreo (885), M&M's (883), Doritos (868), Cheetos (864), with Skittles and Disney tied at 858.
Google's YouTube came in at 852, followed by Microsoft Xbox (850); Lay's (847); Kit Kat and Nickelodeon (846); Crayola (842); McDonald's (839); Nintendo Wii (838); and Reese's, Chips Ahoy! and iPod tying at 836. Netflix came in at 833, followed by iPhone (830), Toys 'R' Us (830) and Apple (829).
The online study surveyed 6,661 children and their parents, in a representative sample of U.S. households with children aged 6-12. For the 2014 study, Smarty Pants evaluated a total of 256 consumer brands across more than 20 categories. 
Released: 2014-10-6T22:20:34.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600mgm
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: For U.S. Stocks, a ¡¥Quiet Melt¡¦
WSJ Blogs, 17:19, 6 October 2014, 826 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 down 0.2% at 1964.82. DJIA down 0.1% at 16991.91. Nasdaq Comp down 0.5% at 4454.80. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.425%. Nymex crude oil up 0.7% at $90.34. Gold up 1.2% at ...
Document WCWSJB0020141006eaa6006va
Corporate News: Corporate Watch
521 words
6 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
SAMSUNG
Phone Maker Pays
$1 Billion in Royalties
In a glimpse of the financial stakes in the smartphone-patent wars, Microsoft Corp. said Friday that Samsung Electronics Ltd. paid the software giant more than $1 billion for an annual fee to use Microsoft technology in Samsung phones.
Samsung sells smartphones and tablets powered by Google Inc.'s Android software. But Microsoft has said some of its patents are included in Android technologies, such as methods for displaying multiple windows in a Web browser. Therefore, Samsung and other smartphone makers pay royalty fees to Microsoft for each Android device they sell.
Neither Samsung nor Microsoft have disclosed previously the size of these royalty payments.
Samsung hasn't responded to Microsoft's complaint. A spokeswoman for the company declined to comment Friday.
-- Shira Ovide
---
EBAY
Executives Will Get
Big Bonuses from Split
EBay Inc.'s plan to spin off its PayPal payment unit will prove costly.
The company said in a filing Friday that PayPal's new chief, Dan Schulman, will have a base salary of $900,000, receive equity awards over the next year of $18 million and be eligible for as much as $29.1 million in pay for benefits he may be forfeiting from his former job at American Express Co.
Mr. Schulman's base salary is $200,000 more than the previous head of the division who left earlier this year. The pay will rise to $1 million after the split is complete, expected for later next year.
The executive is eligible for an annual bonus of as much as $1.68 million before the split and $2 million after the split.
Devin Wenig, who will rise to CEO of eBay from his current post as head of the marketplace division, will see his compensation rise too.
His base salary will rise to $900,000, from $800,000, and will jump to $1 million following the split. He is eligible for bonus payments of as much as $1.68 million before the breakup and $2 million following, eBay said.
-- Greg Bensinger
---
FEDEX
Court Sides with Kansas
Drivers in Work Dispute
The Kansas Supreme Court on Friday issued an opinion that hundreds of truck drivers who delivered packages for FedEx Corp. in Kansas were employees of the Memphis, Tenn.-based express delivery company and not its independent contractors.
According to the Kansas court opinion, 479 Kansas drivers sued FedEx alleging they were improperly classified as independent contractors under Kansas law. The drivers are seeking retroactive costs and expenses, as well as overtime.
The state court issued the opinion in response to a request from the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which is considering appeals in 20 class-action suits, including the one in Kansas. All those had been decided in FedEx's favor.
FedEx said in a statement that it fundamentally disagrees with the ruling. "At the time, we are considering available options in response to the court's decision," the company said. It added that the driver model at issue is no longer in use.
-- Laura Stevens
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141006eaa60002o
 The Daily Startup: Eric Schmidt, Peter Thiel Join Dolby in Alzheimer¡¦s Deals
WSJ Blogs, 08:29, 6 October 2014, 968 words, (English)
Art by Mike Lucas
Dolby Laboratories founder Ray Dolby helped technology boom in the Bay Area decades before the tech boom, pioneering noise-reduction techniques in audio recordings in the late 1960s and later helping to develop the first ...
Document WCWSJB0020141006eaa6002p9
UPDATE 3-Samsung Electronics makes $14.7 bln bet with new S.Korean chip plant
944 words
6 October 2014
12:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Samsung Electronics to build chip plant in Pyeongtaek
* Facility could produce logic or memory chips
* Construction to be completed in second half of 2017 (Updates to include move in shares of U.S. chipmakers)
By Se Young Lee
SEOUL, Oct 6 (Reuters) - South Korean IT giant Samsung Electronics plans to spend $14.7 billion on a new chip facility - its biggest investment in a single plant - leaning on its semiconductor business to bolster profits as its smartphone dominance wanes.
Samsung, the world's top memory chip maker, said the plant would be located in Pyeongtaek, roughly 75 kilometres (47 miles) south of Seoul. The company said it would create 150,000 jobs, equal to about a third of the city's population.
The bet on chips comes as its smartphone business is being squeezed by Apple Inc in the premium segment and undercut by Chinese rivals like Lenovo Group Ltd in mid-to-low end. April-June operating profit for Samsung's mobile division fell in annual terms for the second straight quarter, the longest streak since at least 2011.
But with the higher demand for mobile devices come increased orders for mobile chips, and Samsung Electronics' semiconductor division will be key to propping up the company's bottom-line, analysts say.
The plant in Pyeongtaek will make either logic or memory chips, Samsung Electronics said, adding that a final decision had not been made yet.
"Right now the only part of the company that is bringing in steady profits is the semiconductor division, so it looks like the company will keep investing in the business," said IM Investment analyst Lee Min-hee.
The chip business is likely to be a lone bright spot in what is otherwise expected to be a poor third quarter for the South Korean giant. Samsung will issue its earnings guidance for the period on Tuesday.
The mean forecast from a Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S survey of 42 analysts calls for the firm's July-September operating profit to come in at 5.6 trillion won ($5.24 billion), its weakest performance since the fourth quarter of 2011.
Some analysts forecast that the semiconductor division will report stronger operating profit than the handset division in the third quarter for the first time in more than three years. The chip business recorded a 1.9 trillion won profit in the second quarter, compared with 4.4 trillion won for the mobile business.
The company's global smartphone market share has declined in annual terms in the last two quarters, according to Strategy Analytics, in step with the profit drop at its mobile division.
Shares of Samsung Electronics closed 0.9 percent higher on Monday, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the broader market. In the United States, chipmakers were hit on the news of Samsung's increased efforts. The PHLX Semiconductor Index fell 1.3 percent, led by a 5.7 percent drop in Micron Technology.
GLUT CONCERNS
Samsung Electronics said its chip production capacity was expected to rise by a "low double-digit percentage." Construction of the new plant is scheduled to be completed by the second half of 2017.
Any capacity increase can be ominous for competitors in a deeply cyclical industry. Shares in domestic rival SK Hynix Inc fell more than 8 percent at one point on Monday after Samsung's announcement.
Market conditions for memory chips have remained favourable this year partly due to stronger-than-anticipated demand from personal computers and servers. Industry players like Samsung Electronics have so far been careful about capacity expansion, keeping supply conditions on a tight leash.
Besides SK Hynix Inc, competitors in the memory industry include Micron Technology Inc and Toshiba Corp.
"While the plant won't enter production until 2017, Samsung's investment plan hurts sentiment because it suggests that Samsung wants to make further market share gains," IM's Lee said.
Some analysts said investors may be over-reacting on SK Hynix shares, given how output from the new Samsung plant won't materialise for several years and it is not yet clear what chips will be made there.
They also noted that the investment will be spread out over three years, keeping spending on the project well within Samsung's typical annual semiconductor-related investments.
"This isn't about Samsung trying to destroy the industry cycle but trying to maximise profits from the semiconductor business," CIMB analyst Lee Do-hoon said.
PYEONGTAEK
The tech giant said it had brought forward its investment plan for Pyeongtaek by more than a year in response to calls from regional governments to help boost economic activity in the area.
"Samsung will continue to balance its domestic and foreign investments to ensure optimal global production structure," the company said.
Analysts said there could be practical benefits to having the new plant in relatively close proximity to other domestic chip plants as opposed to building one overseas. Some said building a new plant near Seoul makes it easier for the company to recruit local engineering talent as well.
"To some extent, this is also a response to the current government's call for big corporations to invest domestically," said Korea Investment Trust Management fund manager Baik Jae-yer.
The government has proposed a tax on excess profits at big corporations in an effort to prod them to spend more on investment, wages and dividends. (1 US dollar = 1,068.7500 Korean won) (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Edwina Gibbs, Ryan Woo and Gunna Dickson) 
Released: 2014-10-6T18:12:04.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa60018s
BREAKINGVIEWS-U.S. courts turn tail too often in foreign fights
584 words
6 October 2014
09:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
By Reynolds Holding
NEW YORK, Oct 6 (Reuters Breakingviews) - American courts turn tail too often in foreign fights. That may surprise Credit Suisse and other overseas targets of Uncle Sam's eye-popping penalties. But a judge recently blocked Motorola Mobility from avenging price-fixing abroad that could have affected its competitive edge stateside. It's the latest example of excessive limits on U.S. law in cross-border spats.
Jurists weren't always so skittish. Until 2010, they would happily decide securities fraud cases filed by foreign investors against overseas companies that issued stock on exchanges abroad. The Supreme Court stopped that, deciding that laws don't apply beyond American shores without an explicit say-so from Congress.
The rule is clearer in theory than practice, but some judges have taken it too far. Motorola Mobility sued Korea's Samsung Electronics and others in 2009 for allegedly inflating the price of liquid crystal displays. The company wanted damages for the displays used in any of its cellphones that may have been sold in America, no matter where they were manufactured. It relied on a law allowing suits over foreign anti-competitive behavior that directly affects U.S. commerce.
A federal judge ruled earlier this year, though, that only devices made in America were covered. That's inconsistent with both precedent and the law's explicit terms. Motorola has appealed.
It's not the first time judges have acted like wimps. Several have ruled, for example, that foreigners blowing the whistle on companies with shares listed on U.S. exchanges qualify for bounties under the Dodd-Frank financial reform but aren't protected by its anti-retaliation provisions from, say, getting fired. The courts suggested enforcing those provisions might interfere with other countries' employment practices.
Reining in Uncle Sam isn't necessarily a bad thing. The likes of BNP Paribas have accused prosecutors - though not necessarily courts - of picking on them by extracting multibillion-dollar settlements for violating American laws. They have a point. U.S. criminal fines from 2001 to 2010 were about five times greater on average for foreign companies than American ones, a University of Virginia study found.
Tossing cases and restraining prosecutors make sense when Uncle Sam's interests are slight. But to forgo punishing misconduct that inflicts harm at home undermines the rule of law. 
              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              
- Samsung Electronics, AU Optronics and other makers of liquid crystal displays on Oct. 3 filed a brief in Motorola Mobility's appeal of a decision throwing out much of its antitrust case against those manufacturers.
- Motorola claims the companies conspired to inflate the price of displays used in some $5 billion worth of its cellphones. A U.S. District Court ruled in February that Motorola could sue over phones that were manufactured and sold in the United States, but not over devices either assembled abroad and sold in America or assembled and sold abroad.
- The company is relying on the 1982 Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements Act, which allows lawsuits involving foreign anti-competitive behavior that has a "direct, substantial, and reasonably foreseeable effect" on U.S. commerce.
- Oral arguments in the appeal are scheduled for Nov. 13.
- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (On Twitterhttps://twitter.com/holdingren. Editing by Antony Currie and Martin Langfield) 
Released: 2014-10-6T15:36:24.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa600cnm
 AT&T Scores Most Effective Wireless Ad of 2014 So Far
WSJ Blogs, 09:38, 6 October 2014, 189 words, By Nathalie Tadena, (English)
Of the four biggest advertisers in the wireless services sector, AT&T scored the most effective ad in the category so far this year, according to data from Ace Metrix.
Document WCWSJB0020141006eaa6003e9
Investing in Funds & ETFs: A Quarterly Analysis --- Emerging Markets: 'Ethical' Investing in Emerging Markets? --- Socially responsible investing around the globe could seem folly, but some funds think it's possible
By Rachel Rosenthal   
896 words
6 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
R6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Emerging markets may not be the wilderness they once were for "socially responsible" investors.
Most investors lured by the glint of growth in markets like Brazil, South Africa and China accept the greater political, currency and liquidity risks in those markets, compared with more developed markets. But so-called socially responsible investors -- who seek to marry long-term competitive financial results with social objectives -- have to tangle with yet another risk in emerging markets: the relative lack of disclosure and universal reporting standards, which could make it harder to dig out unethical corporate behavior.
In recent years, data available for vetting investments in developing markets has become more sophisticated and more widespread. Many funds perform due diligence and use shareholder activism to push for greater disclosure and more ethical corporate practices in emerging markets.
Much debate has swirled in academic and investor forums over whether limiting investments to suit social objectives affects performance. But contrary to modern portfolio theory -- which suggests portfolio constraints would restrict performance -- experts haven't found clear evidence indicating as much for socially responsible funds over the long term.
Socially responsible investing -- more recently called "ESG" investing, for environmental, social and governance -- has been marketed for decades. Common filters avoid "sin stocks" of tobacco, alcohol and gambling companies. An example with global resonance was the widespread divestiture of holdings in South Africa in the 1980s to protest apartheid.
There were 116 funds incorporating social criteria in August, up from 77 in 2003, according to fund tracker Morningstar Inc. Total assets grew to $61.46 billion from $23.49 billion over the same period. A handful of these funds have emerging-markets exposure of 65% or more, such as DFA Emerging Markets Social Core Equities (DFESX).
Meanwhile, companies in emerging markets have started to adopt better disclosure practices to draw investment, and data providers have sharpened focus on social metrics to gauge whether local investments are meeting ESG standards.
"Ten years ago, that level of disclosure wasn't sufficient to measure outcomes or performance," says David Harris, ESG director at index provider FTSE. Recently, FTSE and another index provider, MSCI Inc., have built more ESG-specific indexes to help measure the performance of companies that incorporate ESG practices.
Both index providers also have developed relationships with emerging-markets exchanges. Exchanges in countries like South Africa and Brazil have led the charge among peers to use ESG indexes as a means of drawing investors.
Moreover, a push by emerging-markets companies toward integrated reporting -- which weaves reports on issues like sustainability and corporate governance alongside traditional financial accounting -- has better equipped ESG investors to evaluate their investment options, says Laura Berry, executive director of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility.
Still, it takes "boots on the ground," to sort it all out, Ms. Berry says. "There are so many opportunities for opacity and obfuscation that I can't overemphasize the power of the folks who are there."
Challenges also arise "when these companies aren't listed on U.S. stock exchanges and their disclosures aren't in English," says Stephanie Cuttler Aument, a sustainability analyst at Calvert Investments.
That extra work sometimes costs investors. Fees for ESG funds "skew toward the high end" of fund fees, though the sampling is small, says David Kathman, an analyst at Morningstar. The average sustainable and responsible investment fund is more expensive than 60% of its peer group of similar funds, according to Morningstar.
The bigger worry for some is whether restricting investment options will limit a fund's performance. Experts haven't been able to isolate whether social screens help or hurt performance given the variety of other factors at play, such as manager skill, investor sophistication and the small sample size.
"You're more constrained," says Gerardo Zamorano, a director of investments at Brandes Investment Partners, a subadviser for Timothy Plan Emerging Markets Fund (TPEMX). "But you can still put together a pretty strong portfolio."
Generally speaking, Mr. Zamorano says, investors should be encouraged by the improving fundamentals in emerging markets over the past 15 years, such as shrinking debt-to-GDP ratios and low share valuations compared with developed markets.
Indeed, many ESG investors see long-term opportunity in emerging markets, arguing that better governance will improve performance.
Some funds that focus on ethics concerns visit company boardrooms and operations, and form alliances with like-minded local groups to root out trouble spots and monitor progress. Boston Common Asset Management has worked to improve many corporate practices, including worker safety in Bangladesh after the Rana Plaza factory collapse there killed more than 1,100.
Some efforts take years to yield results. Boston Common in 2005 approached South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. about improving disclosure of its use of so-called conflict minerals, which are mined in areas of unrest and produce revenue that could fund local violence. By 2012, Samsung improved disclosure and had adapted the industry code of conduct, says Lauren Compere, managing director at Boston Common.
Samsung declined to comment.
---
Ms. Rosenthal is a Wall Street Journal news editor in Hong Kong. Email her at rachel.rosenthal@wsj.com.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141006eaa60000e
 UPDATE 1-Samsung to invest $14.7 bln in new S.Korea chip facility
Reuters, 21:02, 5 October 2014, 310 words, Sun Oct, (English)
SEOUL, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd plans to invest $14.7 billion to construct a new chip production plant in South Korea, a major bet on its semiconductor business amid a smartphone earnings slump.
Document WCLBA00020141006eaa6000ul
SK Hynix shares fall sharply after Samsung Elec chip investment news
118 words
5 October 2014
20:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Shares in SK Hynix fell sharply in early trade on Monday after memory chip rival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said it will invest nearly $15 billion in a new semiconductor production facility in South Korea.
Samsung said construction of the facility will be completed by the second half of 2017. The firm said the facility could produce logic or memory chips at the facility but did not give exact details on the production capacity.
SK Hynix shares were trading down 6.9 percent as of 0142 GMT. (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Miral Fahmy) 
Released: 2014-10-6T02:43:05.000Z
Document LBA0000020141006eaa60008y
Search Summary
 Textsamsung   DateIn the last 3 months   SourceReuters Newswires Or The Wall Street Journal - All sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectAll Subjects   IndustryAll Industries   RegionAll Regions   LanguageEnglish   Results Found1,625   Timestamp29 October 2014 3:21  
 Page 110 of 137     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Corporate News: Korea Startup Founders Reinvest in New Ventures
By Jonathan Cheng   
981 words
22 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
23
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL -- The trading debut of South Korea's ubiquitous mobile-messaging app maker Daum Kakao this month made an instant multibillionaire out of one of its founders, Kim Beom-soo.
But the 48-year-old Mr. Kim, whose stake in the company is now valued at roughly $3.2 billion, is just the most prominent in a growing circle of Korean startup founders who have found success selling their young companies in recent months.
Now through their own venture-capital firms, they are reinvesting their wealth in a new wave of young Korean companies, helping turn the country's startup scene into one of Asia's most active.
In recent months, South Korea's technology scene has also drawn attention from big Silicon Valley companies like Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., whose founder Mark Zuckerberg has visited the country twice in two years, including last week. Google is opening a 20,000-square-foot startup center in Seoul to nurture domestic startups and give them more global exposure.
In the past, South Korea's startups struggled to connect with users outside the country. But the current crop of young entrepreneurs, many of whom have studied outside Korea, are starting companies with global ambitions. They are also getting more help from government programs that match private investments with public grants.
South Korea is beginning to see signs of a dynamic startup environment, says Jimmy Rim, a 35-year-old venture capitalist who worked for the Korea-focused venture-capital arm of Japan's SoftBank Corp. before leaving in 2012 to start a venture-capital firm called K Cube Ventures with Mr. Kim.
"When I started out in 2007, the atmosphere was very bad," Mr. Rim says. "There weren't that many investors at the early stage; venture capitalists weren't willing to invest, or they even wanted collateral from the companies to get their money out. There were no potential buyers."
That is no longer a problem. So far this year, venture-capital investment in Korea's tech industry has reached $198 million, more than four times that of 2012, according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal. That is a much more dramatic rate of growth than in the larger neighboring countries of Japan and China even though, in value terms, it still lags behind Japan's $370 million and China's $3.3 billion.
Through one program, called TIPS, or Tech Incubator Program for Startups, South Korea's Small and Medium Business Administration magnifies startup investments made by venture capitalists whose firms have won designation as qualified investors. For example, if an investor makes a $10,000 investment, the government can pitch in with a fivefold grant of $50,000 -- up to a maximum of $500,000.
Yoon Se-myung, a senior official who helps oversee the program, says the policy was modeled on one run by Israel's government, and could provide a blueprint for how the South Korean government -- eager to help nurture an economy that relies less on its conglomerates -- doles out money to startups in the future.
Relying in part on leverage from the government, Mr. Kim's K Cube Ventures has invested in companies like Frograms Inc., maker of an online movie-recommendation engine, and Greenmonster Inc., whose journaling service Flava has attracted 1.2 million users. Mr. Kim declined to be interviewed for this article.
K Cube Ventures has also invested in an interest-based community website called Vingle, started by Changseong Ho and his wife Jiwon Moon, which now has four million monthly visitors from 105 countries and has content in 26 languages from Indonesian to Portuguese.
Last September, Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon, who started their own company while earning their master's degrees in the U.S., sold Viki, the video-sharing website they founded in 2007, to Japan's e-commerce operator Rakuten Inc. for $200 million.
Now, Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon's fund, called TheVentures, makes investments of its own, of between $50,000 and $200,000, in domestic startups. For example, they have invested in Bridge Mobile, a startup that builds a platform on free Internet-based mobile-phone calls, and houses the company in a shared workspace in Seoul's Gangnam district.
Meanwhile, Ryu Jung-hee, an engineering Ph.D. who like Mr. Ho passed up a company job to start a string of companies, sold Olaworks Inc., a facial-recognition company that he founded in 2006, to Intel Corp. for about $30 million in 2012.
In April, Mr. Ryu plowed his earnings into a startup accelerator called FuturePlay, targeting companies that center around "deep technology," built on doctoral-level engineering, like facial- and voice-recognition technology.
FuturePlay's strategy is to persuade midcareer engineers to leave cozy jobs at the country's large technology firms, Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc., to pursue their startup dreams -- in part, by offering them the security of a year's salary while building their company in-house at FuturePlay, before spinning off their ideas as a separate legal entity. FuturePlay takes an equity stake in the new companies.
FuturePlay has two lawyers, including an intellectual-property specialist, on staff to protect its startups' ideas from the get-go, says Mr. Ryu.
One of the biggest advantages Messrs. Ho and Ryu can offer, they say, is expertise in going global -- a key aim for companies that TheVentures and FuturePlay invest in.
For Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon's Viki, which allows volunteer translators to subtitle dramas and television programs for fans in their own countries, for example, the founders had a global vision from the beginning. At the end of 2013, Viki said it had more than 26 million viewers each month.
---
Min Sun Lee contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141021eaam0001e
Business & Finance
What's News
Business & Finance
234 words
22 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
2
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Apple's iCloud storage service for users in mainland China has been hit by an attack that could allow perpetrators to gain access to personal data, activists and security analysts said.
---
Apple said its quarterly profit rose 13%, and it predicted record holiday sales, as demand for new larger-screen iPhones helped to overcome sluggish iPad sales.
---
Shares of Takata, the Japanese supplier of automotive air bags implicated in several deaths, dropped 23% after U.S. regulators urged drivers to "act immediately" to fix defective air bags.
---
Mainland Chinese companies eager to establish a foothold in Hong Kong ahead of a much-vaunted stock-trading link between the city and China are gobbling up small brokerages.
---
McDonald's vowed to make fundamental changes after reporting a 30% drop in quarterly profit driven by problems in most major parts of its business.
---
Samsung Electronics said the U.S. NSA approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the firm's struggling mobile division.
---
A growing circle of Korean startup founders are selling their companies and reinvesting in a new wave of young firms.
---
Australia's central bank stressed the importance of maintaining rigorous standards on loans to property investors, reflecting concern speculators are dominating the housing market.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141021eaam00014
Asia
What¡¦s News¡X
380 words
21 October 2014
19:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Business & Finance
Apple¡¦s iCloud storage service for users in mainland China has been hit by an attack that could allow perpetrators to gain access to personal data, activists and security analysts said.
Apple said its quarterly profit rose 13%, and it predicted record holiday sales, as demand for new larger-screen iPhones helped to overcome sluggish iPad sales.
Shares of Takata, the Japanese supplier of automotive air bags implicated in several deaths, dropped 23% after U.S. regulators urged drivers to ¡§act immediately¡¨ to fix defective air bags.
Mainland Chinese companies eager to establish a foothold in Hong Kong ahead of a much-vaunted stock-trading link between the city and China are gobbling up small brokerages.
McDonald¡¦s vowed to make fundamental changes after reporting a 30% drop in quarterly profit driven by problems in most major parts of its business.
Samsung Electronics said the U.S. NSA approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the firm¡¦s struggling mobile division.
A growing circle of Korean startup founders are selling their companies and reinvesting in a new wave of young firms.
Australia¡¦s central bank stressed the importance of maintaining rigorous standards on loans to property investors, reflecting concern speculators are dominating the housing market.
World-Wide
South Korea and the U.S. this week will set out conditions for Seoul to take control of its military in the event of war on the Korean peninsula, South Korea¡¦s vice defense minister said.
American detainee Jeffrey Fowle was released from North Korea, nearly six months after he was taken into custody, the U.S. said. Two other Americans who have been convicted of crimes in North Korea are still being held.
New data show Afghan troops are dying at their highest rate in more than a decade just as international combat troops prepare to leave by the end of this year.
Britain¡¦s air force will soon start surveillance flights in Syria using drones, marking a significant escalation in support for the fight against Islamic State.
Died: Gough Whitlam, 98, Australian prime minister from 1972-75 and a proponent of indigenous rightss and the first Western leader to recognize communist China.
Document WSJO000020141021eaam0066c
UPDATE 2-Broadcom 3rd-quarter results beat views, stock jumps
376 words
21 October 2014
16:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds comment from analyst, background on company; updates stock price)
By Noel Randewich
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 21 (Reuters) - Broadcom posted third-quarter results on Tuesday that exceeded Wall Street's expectations as the chipmaker focused on networking and smartphone chips, sending its shares 5 percent higher.
Broadcom, whose wifi connectivity chips are used in Apple's iPhones, reported third-quarter revenue of $2.26 billion, up 5.3 percent from the year-ago period. Analysts on average had expected third-quarter revenue of $2.17 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The company said it saw strength in broadband and connectivity chips in the quarter. Broadcom may have received a boost from brisk sales of Apple's newest smartphones, Bernstein analyst Stacy Rasgon said.
In the third quarter, Broadcom had a net profit of $98 million, or 16 cents a share, compared with a net profit of $316 million, or 55 cents a share, last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share were 91 cents in the third quarter. Analysts on average expected 84 cents.
It said revenue in the fourth quarter would be $2.0 billion to $2.15 billion, with the midpoint of its forecast at $2.075 billion.
Analysts on average had expected third-quarter revenue of $2.17 billion and fourth-quarter revenue of $2.11 billion.
Broadcom's report comes as the company winds down its money-losing cellular baseband chip business. Broadcom struggled to compete against larger rival Qualcomm Inc, which has a major lead in 4G cellphone technology increasingly used in smartphones.
Getting out of baseband frees up cash to return to shareholders and lets Broadcom concentrate on its better-performing networking and broadband businesses. However, that may leave the chipmaker at a competitive disadvantage selling its wifi chips in the smartphone market.
As well as Apple, the Irvine, California, company supplies wifi chips for Samsung Electronics' Galaxy S5 and other high-end handsets.
Broadcom's stock rose about 5 percent in extended trading after closing up 2.84 percent at $37.33 in regular Nasdaq trade. (Reporting by Noel Randewich; Editing by Chris Reese, Bernard Orr and Andre Grenon)
Released: 2014-10-24T21:23:15.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal00o2p
UPDATE 2-Chipmaker ARM's upbeat message fails to allay concerns
534 words
21 October 2014
05:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Q3 revenue up 12 pct to $320.2 mln, short of market forecast
* Predicts strengthening royalty growth after missing Q3 target
* Shares give up early gains (Adds CFO comment, analyst, context, shares)
By Paul Sandle
LONDON, Oct 21 (Reuters) - British chipmaker ARM Holdings' predictions of improving smartphone demand and strengthening royalty growth met with a cool stock market response after it fell short of third-quarter revenue expectations on Tuesday.
The company that provides the technology that powers the iPhone 6 pointed to Apple's booming sales, but investors will take more convincing over long-term prospects in the face of slowing demand for high-end smartphones from the likes of Samsung Electronics.
The strongest part of the market is in cheaper mobile handsets from Chinese manufacturers, containing older ARM technology that commands lower royalty rates.
ARM's shares, which had fallen 14 percent since the launch of the iPhone 6 on Sept. 9, rose as much as 4 percent in early trading but by 1013 GMT were down 4.7 percent at 811 pence.
Analysts at Liberum said they remained cautious on the stock, expecting royalty growth to be weaker than current market expectations.
Shorter-term prospects were buoyed, however, by news from Apple late on Monday of a better than expected 16 percent jump in sales of the iPhone, which uses ARM's latest 64-bit technology.
ARM recognises royalty revenue a quarter in arrears, so the iPhone numbers will not be seen in its results until the next quarter and the first quarter of 2015.
Chief Financial Officer Tim Score said strong iPhone sales were "helpful" in underpinning the short-term outlook for royalty revenues, supported by data from ARM's other chipmaking partners.
"We certainly have seen an uptick in mobile," he told reporters, adding that he expected group dollar revenues for the fourth quarter to be in line with market expectations of about $350 million.
INVENTORY BACKLOG
But weakness in processor royalties, which it receives on every chip shipped by its partners, remains a concern as the consumer electronics industry works through a backlog of inventory amid the faltering economic recovery in many markets.
Score said that acceleration in processor royalty growth would continue as more of ARM's latest technology is deployed in consumer products. Royalties grew 11 percent in the third quarter, he said, and would increase in the mid-teens in the final quarter, with growth continuing into 2015.
While an improvement on the third quarter, the predicted recovery is still short of the 19 percent or so royalty growth it had forecast at the start of the year.
The third-quarter royalty income contributed to a miss on top-line revenue measured in dollars, which was up 12 percent to $320.2 million against market expectations of $326.3 million.
Favorable currency movements, however, meant revenue in pounds was in line with expectations while cost control helped to lift pretax profit 9 percent to 101.2 million pounds ($163.4 million), broadly in line with expectations. (1 US dollar = 0.6192 British pound)
(Editing by David Goodman)
Released: 2014-10-24T10:39:41.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal00a6q
 Positive Earnings Reports Send Stocks Higher
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 21 October 2014, 582 words, (English)
Summary: Stocks are rallying on Apple's earnings report and a report the ECB may strengthen its stimulus efforts. Home sales hit their highest level of the year in September. And the NSA approves some Samsung devices to carry classified ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141021eaal000b5
 iPad Air 2 Video Review
Wall Street Journal Video, 21 October 2014, 522 words, (English)
Summary: Apple's newest tablet is thinner than ever, but whether it is for you depends on where you plan on holding it¡Xand what you want to do with it. WSJ's Joanna Stern reviews the Air 2. Photo/Video: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal.
Document MMSAJB0020141022eaal0002t
Tech
Sony Is Looking to Cut Smartphone Sales Target Again
By Takashi Mochizuki 
503 words
21 October 2014
16:47
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TOKYO¡XSony is considering slashing its smartphone sales target again, people familiar with the matter said Wednesday, as the business struggles to perform as expected in the face of fierce competition especially in emerging markets.
The Japanese electronics giant is likely to trim its smartphone sales target by several millions of units from the current goal of 43 million for the 12 months to the end of March 2015. A lowering of the sales target would be the second downward revision of the forecast in the current business year started in April. The original goal was 50 million, which many analysts said was too optimistic.
The planned move stems from Sony¡¦s plan to reduce its presence in some markets, especially emerging nations such as China, by pulling its entry-level handsets.
Sony disappointed investors in September when it announced it would write down ?180 billion ($1.68 billion) of the smartphone segment¡¦s business value and lowered the earnings forecast for the current business year to a ?230 billion net loss, almost five times what it said previously.
For Sony watchers, the latest plan won¡¦t come as much of a surprise, as company executives, including chief executive Kazuo Hirai, have been signaling it will downsize its smartphone business in some countries after concluding that introducing entry-level models for emerging markets was a mistake. Sony plans to hold a meeting with investors in November, and Chief Financial Officer Kenichiro Yoshida said details of how it will update the smartphone business plan would be unveiled there.
Sony¡¦s Xperia smartphone business was once a star player for the company, but is now experiencing trouble. It has been hit by the emergence of Chinese makers of cheap handsets, while it continues to struggle in competition against market leaders such as Apple and Samsung.
The Xperia will remain a core business for the company along with image sensors and the gaming business, but Mr. Yoshida has said at news conferences that the smartphone segment will focus on high-end models and won¡¦t seek a major share of the global market.
Mr. Hirai said in September that Sony would cut 1,000 employees, or 15% of the global smartphone business workforce, by March. Some analysts said the cut wasn't enough to turn around the segment.
Sony announces its earnings result for the July-September period on Oct. 31. While analysts expect a net loss due to the ?180 billion smartphone charges, they say it is unlikely the company will again revise down the earnings forecast for the year for the company as a whole.
New York hedge-fund firm Third Point LLC, which unsuccessfully sought a partial spinoff of Sony¡¦s entertainment business, said Tuesday said that it had sold its stake in Sony for a return of nearly 20%, saying in a letter to its investors that ¡§more urgency¡¨ was necessary to ¡§definitively turn around the company¡¦s fortunes.¡¨ 
Document WSJO000020141022eaal000b7
 Smartphone repair company B2X steps up expansion with Indian deal
Reuters India, 11:11, 21 October 2014, 570 words, Eric Auchard, (English)
By Eric Auchard FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Smartphone users won't recognise the name B2X, but if your battery dies or your screen breaks, the odds are that the company will be working behind the scenes when you seek a repair. For customer ...
Document WC45421020141022eaal00010
Business
Corporate Watch
615 words
21 October 2014
17:57
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NSA Approves Some Mobile Devices
Samsung Electronics Co. said the U.S. National Security Agency approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker¡¦s struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs. The company has long believed that winning certifications from top security authorities will help persuade corporate clients to switch to Samsung phones from those made by rivals like BlackBerry Ltd.
Samsung¡¦s mobile security platform, called Knox, allows users to have a virtual ¡§container¡¨ within their smartphones, which separates work and personal apps.
Samsung said on Tuesday that the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.¡¦s Boeing Black phone.
Min-Jeong Lee
EU Charges Honeywell,
European Union regulators filed formal charges Tuesday against Honeywell International Inc. and DuPont Co. over their agreements to produce the only car coolant that meets new EU rules on greenhouse-gas emissions.
The European Commission, the EU¡¦s top antitrust regulator, said deals between the two companies to produce the chemical, known as R-1234yf, ¡§may have limited its availability and technical development, in breach of EU antitrust rules.¡¨
The move steps up a probe opened in 2011 that targeted Honeywell and DuPont¡¦s pact to produce a new refrigerant for vehicle air-conditioning systems, which was developed to replace a refrigerant that had fallen foul of new EU anti-global warming rules.
If the companies are found guilty of illegal collusion, they could face fines of up to 10% of annual sales.
Tom Fairless
German Company in Talks to Sell Hearing-Aid Unit
Germany¡¦s Siemens AG is in advanced talks to sell its hearing-aid business, which could be valued at up to £á2 billion ($2.55 billion), according to people familiar with the matter.
Private-equity firm Permira Holdings is bidding for the hearing-aid unit by itself, while rival EQT Partners, based in Stockholm, may form a consortium with hearing-aid maker GN Store Nord A/S to acquire the assets, the people said.
Bloomberg previously reported that EQT is the front-runner to acquire the business, but Permira and Denmark¡¦s GN Store Nord were also interested bidders.
An outright sale of the hearing-aid unit isn¡¦t a foregone conclusion, however, given that bankers previously said Siemens¡¦ asking price of around £á2 billion is expensive.
It is unclear whether bidders are willing to pay that, one of the sources said.
Eyk Henning and Christopher Alessi
Improved Sales Don¡¦t Rev Up Profit for Bike Maker
Harley-Davidson Inc. reported strong retail sales of its motorcycles and better-than-expected profit for the third quarter.
World-wide retail sales at Harley dealers in the latest quarter grew 3.8% from a year earlier, a performance that analysts considered strong because 2013¡¦s third quarter was unusually robust, benefiting from the introduction of the Rushmore line of motorcycles. The latest figures also were a huge improvement from the second quarter, when retail sales were flat.
Despite the improved retail sales, Harley¡¦s profit fell 7.8% in the third quarter to $150.1 million, or 69 cents a share, down from $162.7 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue, including financial services, slipped 3.1% to $1.30 billion.
James R. Hagerty
Document WSJO000020141022eaal000p3
 5 Things to Read Today: iMacs, Not Big Macs, Flights From Ebola-Stricken Nations Restricted, And More
WSJ Blogs, 16:50, 21 October 2014, 723 words, (English)
#1: McDonald's Profit Plunges; Coke Announces Billions in Cost Cuts
                McDonald¡¦s vowed to make fundamental changes to its business after reporting a worse-than-expected 30% drop in quarterly ...
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal007pt
Markets
ARM Wrestles With a Smartphone Slowdown; Deteriorating Trends May Prove Too Much for ARM¡¦s Strength
By Thao Hua 
431 words
21 October 2014
07:57
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ARM faces another leg down.
With its stock down by one-quarter so far this year, U.K. chip designer ARM Holdings moved on Tuesday to reassure investors that royalty revenues¡Xits bread and butter¡Xare in good shape. Investors disagreed, a situation not helped by the fact that ARM¡¦s shares were still trading at a heady 27 times 2015 earnings. The stock plunged another 5%.
ARM, which reported quarterly results on Tuesday, is doing all the right things: It is hanging on to its 95% market share in intellectual property for mobile chips while doubling its estimated market share in enterprise networks and servers to about 10% this year. The number of ARM-designed chips embedded in machine-to-machine devices rose by 55% year-over-year, accounting for about one-third of the company¡¦s total shipped in the third quarter.
But any progress may not be fast enough to outrun deteriorating trends, including a slowdown in the smartphone industry that may continue into 2015. ARM is highly leveraged to the latter. For every percentage point of growth in smartphone demand, the company estimates its underlying royalty revenue increases by twice as much. Of the processors on which ARM earns a royalty, about half go into mobile devices.
Sanford C. Bernstein estimates that the high end of the smartphone market has flattened from a 23% growth rate in 2013. Low-to-mid-range smartphone markets should see faster growth in the next few years, but the potential royalty opportunity for ARM is only about one-quarter to half as much per chip, the company estimates.
ARM¡¦s royalty revenue increased by about 5.5% for the first three quarters of this year compared with 23% for the same period in 2013. ARM stands to start benefiting from strong sales of the iPhone 6, but that will likely be partially offset by disappointing shipments of Samsung Electronics¡¦ high-end smartphones.
Royalty revenues have missed consensus estimates for the past five quarters. Although the shortfall has been small, investors are running out of patience. Royalty revenue per chip fell 8% in the latest quarter, year over year. If it keeps declining, ARM will have to turn to volume to deliver growth. This is where its high stock multiple leaves little room for error.
Continued growth in nonmobile revenues should eventually help ARM ride out cycles in the smartphone market. For now, the stock doesn¡¦t look like a smart bet.
Document WSJO000020141021eaal005bp
Tech
China¡¦s Xiaomi May Make Cellphones in India; Xiaomi Has Hired Legal Advisers to Investigate the Regulatory Aspects of Manufacturing in India
By Dhanya Ann Thoppil 
331 words
21 October 2014
01:57
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BANGALORE, India¡XXiaomi Inc., China¡¦s best-selling cellphone maker, is thinking of manufacturing its handsets in India.
The company¡Xwhich sells more smartphones than even Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in China¡Xjust started selling its phones in India in July. Its early sales figures have been strong enough that it is already considering manufacturing in Asia¡¦s third-largest economy, said Manu Jain, the head of Xiaomi¡¦s Indian arm.
¡§We always thought that our manufacturing would be based out of China,¡¨ Mr. Jain said. ¡§But India is beginning to become so important for us that we started to think whether we should set up our own manufacturing.¡¨
Mr. Jain said it would take at least six months before Xiaomi can decide whether making handsets in India makes sense.
Earlier this month Nokia Corp. decided to suspend manufacturing at its cellphone factory in southern India amid a continuing dispute with the country¡¦s tax authorities. The tax battle prevented Nokia from selling the plant¡Xonce one of the Finnish company¡¦s largest factories¡Xto Microsoft Corp.
Xiaomi has hired legal advisers to investigate the regulatory aspects of manufacturing in India, said Mr. Jain.
Xiaomi has been making waves in the India cellphone market using sudden online sales and high-end handsets priced close to cost. In its four months in India, Xiaomi has already sold more than 500,000 phones in India.
That is still only a small slice of the market in India where more than 200 million cellphones are sold each year, making it the world¡¦s second largest market after China¡¦s.
While only around one fifth of the new phones sold in India are smartphones, Mr. Jain expects smartphones to account for a majority of the phones sold in the South Asian nation the next three years.
Document WSJO000020141021eaal0035y
BUZZ-ARM: sharp reversal sees stock at bottom of FTSE
156 words
21 October 2014
08:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
** ARM Holdings breaks sharply lower, cracks below last week's lows on heavy volume after outlook disappoints and good results from Apple does little to arrest recent weakness .
** Stock slumps to 15-1/2 month lows and is worst performing stock on the FTSE 100 despite a bright start to the trading day.
** Booming sales at Apple, which uses ARM designs in its iPhone 6, gave stock initial leg-up, but slowing demand for high-end smartphones from the likes of Samsung Electronics a worry.
** Strategists at SocGen flagged "underwhelming" guidance for Q4.
** Stock, which saw brief stint as top FTSE 100 gainer on the day, down more than 8 pct, on course for its biggest one-day pct drop in more than three years. UK benchmark up 1.3 pct. (RM:tricia.wright1.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net,) 
Released: 2014-10-21T14:58:39.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal00eic
 Deals of the Day: Reebok Reaction, Banana Development, IPO Delay
MoneyBeat, 21 October 2014, 838 words, Erik Holm, (English)
Deals of the Day is your one-stop-shop for the morning¡¦s biggest news from the finance beat, including M&A, IPOs, banks, hedge funds and private equity.?Here¡¦s what¡¦s happening today: Mergers & Acquisitions Reebok reaction. An ...
Document BC08551020141021eaal0008i
 Morning MoneyBeat: Technicals Back in Focus, for Positive Reasons
WSJ Blogs, 08:36, 21 October 2014, 1480 words, By Steven Russolillo, (English)
Morning MoneyBeat is the Journal's pre-market primer packed with market updates, insights and must-read news links. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints: steven.russolillo@wsj.com
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal002bd
 Deals of the Day: Reebok Reaction, Banana Development, IPO Delay
WSJ Blogs, 08:24, 21 October 2014, 808 words, By Erik Holm, (English)
Deals of the Day is your one-stop-shop for the morning¡¦s biggest news from the finance beat, including M&A, IPOs, banks, hedge funds and private equity.?Here¡¦s what¡¦s happening today:
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal003ml
 Morning MoneyBeat: Technicals Back in Focus, But This Time for Positive Reasons
MoneyBeat, 21 October 2014, 1448 words, Steven Russolillo, (English)
Morning MoneyBeat is the Journal¡¦s pre-market primer packed with market updates, insights and must-read news links. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints: steven.russolillo@wsj.com Click here to receive this morning newsletter via email ...
Document BC08551020141021eaal0005p
IPhone 6 Recharges Apple's Growth
By Daisuke Wakabayashi   
858 words
21 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
A year ago, the story line around Apple Inc. was that its formidable growth had petered out and Samsung Electronics Co. was eating its lunch. What a difference a year makes.
Driven by booming sales of its new bigger-screen iPhones, Apple on Monday said its quarterly profit rose 13%, and it predicted record holiday sales in the current three-month period.
Meanwhile, Samsung's approach of offering smartphones at all sizes and prices in every market is struggling amid a wave of Chinese manufacturers with low-cost offerings.
Apple's resurgence is driven by the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which the company introduced in September. The iPhone 6 with a 4.7-inch screen and the iPhone 6 Plus with a 5.5-inch display are in short supply. With its latest phones, Apple is catching up with Samsung and others that have posted strong sales of larger phones.
In an interview, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said the reception for the new iPhones has been better than expected with combined sales of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus exceeding same-period sales of last year's iPhone 5S -- Apple's high-end model at the time -- in every market where the phones were available. The larger iPhone 6 Plus sells for $100 more than the 5S did last year.
"We knew it would be good, but it's selling faster than even we thought," said Mr. Cook. "It's clear that this is a big one."
Apple said it sold 39.3 million iPhones in the period ended Sept. 27, a 16% increase from 33.8 million units in the year ago period. Analysts had predicted that Apple would sell 37.8 million iPhones in the period.
Mr. Cook said the company still sees "a significant backlog" for new iPhones. Apple just began selling the new iPhones in China, the world's biggest smartphone market, on Friday.
"The company is gaining momentum heading into the holiday season," said Bill Kreher, technology analyst for Edward Jones. He warned, however, that the phone's success will create "difficult comparisons" in the current fiscal year.
Apple's results also benefited from record sales of its Macintosh line of personal computers, which are growing even as PC sales shrink. Apple said Mac sales rose 21% by units and 18% by revenue. Meanwhile, research firm IDC said global PC sales fell by 1.7%.
The iPhone's strength is in contrast to sluggish iPad sales. Apple said it sold 12.3 million iPads in the period, down from 13.1 million a year ago, marking the third consecutive quarter in which sales declined, compared with the prior year.
As laptops become lighter and smartphones becomes larger and more capable, tablet computers are feeling the squeeze. Apple refreshed its iPad lineup last week and introduced a thinner, more powerful iPad Air 2 with a Touch ID fingerprint reader.
The iPhone's strength stands in contrast to the problems gripping Samsung's smartphone business. Samsung is forecasting a fourth straight quarter of falling operating profit for the period that ended in September.
The Korean electronics conglomerate sold more phones in the third quarter, but margins were weighed down by higher marketing costs and a decline in average selling prices.
Samsung still sells twice as many smartphones as Apple, but Apple generates more profit, according to financial-services firm Canaccord Genuity.
Apple said fiscal fourth quarter net income totaled $8.47 billion, compared with $7.51 billion in the year-ago period. Earnings per share rose more sharply, to $1.42 from a split-adjusted $1.18, because the company's stock-repurchase program reduced the share count by roughly 400 million shares, or 6%. The buybacks boosted earnings per share by nine cents.
Apple said it bought back $17 billion worth of stock during the September quarter. Earlier this month, activist investor Carl Icahn sent Mr. Cook a letter urging the company to buy back more shares because he considered the company's stock undervalued. Apple made its share purchases before Mr. Icahn's letter.
Revenue rose 12% to $42.12 billion from $37.47 billion in the same period a year earlier.
Analysts, on average, estimated that Apple would post earnings of $1.31 a share on revenue of $39.87 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
For the current quarter to December, Apple is forecasting revenue of $63.5 billion to $66.5 billion. The higher number would exceed Apple's revenue in the fiscal year ended September 2010.
Apple said its gross margin, a closely watched indicator of profitability reflecting the percentage of revenue that remains after manufacturing costs, was 38% in the September quarter -- at the high end of the company's estimate range of 37% to 38%. For the December quarter, Apple forecast a gross margin of 37.5% to 38.5%.
Apple shares rose 1.4% in after-hours trading, after climbing $2.09, or 2.1% to $99.76, in 4 p.m. trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141021eaal00030
 Diwali Ad Explosion Buries Top News on Page Six in India
WSJ Blogs, 06:38, 21 October 2014, 549 words, By Aditi Malhotra, (English)
In many of India¡¦s top newspapers this week, stories that should be page-one news are now buried on page 3 or even page 10.
The reason: the annual Diwali explosion of advertising aimed at Indians who love to do their shopping in weeks around ...
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal002xm
UPDATE 1-Heirs of Samsung's Lee don't plan to sell shares in holding firm IPO -source
452 words
21 October 2014
03:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Heirs face tax bill that may come to more than $6 bln               
* IPO share sales could have helped them with tax bill               
* IPO still gives heirs more financial flexibility   (Recasts, adds shareholder names, background)               
By Lee Chang-ho and Joyce Lee               
SEOUL, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The children of the Samsung Group's patriarch do not plan to sell their shares in an IPO by Cheil Industries Inc, the de facto holding company for South Korea's largest conglomerate,  a source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.               
Cheil Industries is expected to be the key vehicle through which the Lee family will retain control of the Samsung Group. Lee Kun-hee, family patriach and chairman of Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, has been hospitalised since May following a heart attack, adding urgency to the process of transferring control.               
Analysts had speculated that his three children may seek to sell some of their shares to help pay for an inheritance tax bill that may come in north of $6 billion when the elder Lee dies. Share sales could still come after the IPO.               
Even without selling shares, the up to $1.4 billion IPO will allow son Jay Y. Lee and sisters Lee Boo-jin and Lee Seo-hyun more financial flexibility as they will be able to use those shares as collateral to borrow money.               
Preliminary plans show the IPO will result in some dilution of the children's combined holding in Cheil to just below 39 percent from about 42 percent, the source said.               
Other Cheil shareholders will sell around 18.74 million shares while 10 million new shares will be issued. An indicative price range of 45,000 won to 53,000 won per share has been set, the source said.               
The pricing figures were in line with previous information given by sources.               
A spokesman for Cheil, which changed its name from Samsung Everland Inc in July, declined to comment on IPO terms. Cheil means "No.1' in Korean.               
While the roadmap to succession remains unclear, analysts believe Samsung Group could pursue all-stock mergers of sister companies or transfer assets between group firms to streamline the chaebol's structure and strengthen the younger Lee's control in key firms including Samsung Electronics.               
Cheil shareholders expected to sell part of their stakes include Samsung SDI Co Ltd, which is likely to sell 5 million shares, the source said. That would be equivalent to about half its 8 percent stake.               
Samsung Card Co Ltd and KCC Corp are also expected to sell shares, he added.               
Released: 2014-10-21T09:58:02.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal0075m
 Apple¡¦s Sales in Greater China Slow
WSJ Blogs, 01:01, 21 October 2014, 392 words, By Lorraine Luk, (English)
Record demand for new larger-screen iPhones helped lift?Apple¡¦s earnings?in the latest quarter, but the technology company¡¦s revenue growth in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong, Taiwan and the mainland, slowed sharply. That's likely ...
Document WCWSJB0020141021eaal0012x
Samsung's Cheil Industries IPO likely to be worth up to $1.4 bln -source
146 words
21 October 2014
01:34
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 21 (Reuters) - Cheil Industries Inc, the de facto holding company for Samsung Group, plans for its IPO to be worth between 1.3 trillion won and 1.5 trillion won ($1.2 billion to $1.4 billion), a source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.
Preliminary plans call for shareholders to sell around 18.74 million shares while 10 million new shares will be issued, and for an indicative price range of 45,000 won to 53,000 won per share, the source said.
The source declined to be identified as he was not authorised to speak about the matter.
(1 US dollar = 1,054.1500 Korean won) (Reporting by Changho Lee and Joyce Lee; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) 
Released: 2014-10-21T07:34:01.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal005a0
 Samsung's Cheil Industries IPO likely to be worth up to $1.4 billion: source
Reuters, 01:35, 21 October 2014, 226 words, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - Cheil Industries Inc, the de facto holding company for Samsung Group [SAGR.UL], plans for its IPO to be worth between 1.3 trillion won and 1.5 trillion won ($1.2 billion to $1.4 billion), a source with direct knowledge of ...
Document WCLBA00020141021eaal0020c
WSJ.D Technology: Phone Parts for China Lift Makers From Japan
By Eric Pfanner   
880 words
21 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
KYOTO, Japan -- China's smartphone boom is being fueled by an unlikely source: Japanese parts makers.
Upstart Chinese phone makers like Xiaomi Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co. are increasingly undercutting smartphone giants like Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. with high-performance, low-cost handsets.
A significant portion of those handsets' guts -- as much as 50% by value, in some cases -- is made by Japanese companies like Murata Manufacturing Co. or TDK Corp. Those parts range from displays and Wi-Fi modules to tiny, energy-storing ceramic capacitors.
"Almost all cellphone manufacturers are our customers," said Tsuneo Murata, president of Murata, which makes capacitors and other components. "The pie for the component demand is growing."
The parts sales are a rare bright spot in Japan's gloomy electronics industry, and China's smartphone market -- the world's largest and growing at 19% a year, according to Counterpoint Research -- is a big factor. Sales there are being fueled by cutthroat competition among dozens of brands, some of which offer smartphones at less than $100. Lower prices mean smaller budgets for parts, but Japanese suppliers often provide a larger share of components to Chinese brands than to Apple or Samsung, analysts say.
In the second quarter of this year, Xiaomi leapfrogged Apple and Samsung to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China, says research firm Canalys. Counterpoint says Chinese brands will capture about three-quarters of the domestic market this year, in terms of volume, up from one-third in 2010.
Chinese companies are boosting purchases of Japanese parts as they push beyond the domestic market, in order to upgrade their phones.
In some Chinese-branded phones, Japanese suppliers provide up to half of the parts by value, said Daiki Takayama, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
Another Chinese smartphone maker, ZTE Corp., buys displays from Sharp Corp. of Japan for its high-end phones, along with camera modules from Sony Corp., said Lu Qianhao, head of ZTE's handset marketing strategy. He cited technological know-how and quality control as advantages of Japanese suppliers.
By contrast, Japanese suppliers account for about one-third of the bill of materials for the latest iPhones, and less than that for Samsung phones, said Shoji Sato, an analyst at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities.
Even phone-screen maker Japan Display Inc., whose shares sank last week after it predicted a loss this fiscal year because of delays in shipments to Apple, says it expects sales to Chinese smartphone makers to nearly triple to <yen>180 billion ($1.68 billion) during the same period.
Japan Display makes liquid-crystal displays for smartphones and tablet computers, one of the most competitive areas in the parts business, in which rivals like LG Display Co. of South Korea have been making inroads. Suppliers like Murata that dominate hard-to-copy niches are doing better.
Murata, which is based in Kyoto, built on a long tradition of ceramics-making to hone its specialization in capacitors and related components.
The company's latest capacitors aren't much bigger than a grain of sand, but they contain about 100 layers of ceramics, and Murata uses proprietary methods to make them.
"It's like making a good mille-feuille,"" Mr. Takayama said. "You can buy a very high-quality egg, the best vanilla essence or whatever, but nobody else knows how to mix it or how long to bake it."
Because Murata is the world's largest supplier of capacitors for phones, with a 35% share, it can assure manufacturers of a reliable supply, analysts say. That is important given the tight schedules of the smartphone business.
Capacitors cost pennies or less, but state-of-the-art handsets contain 700 to 800 of them -- three or four times as many as in previous generations of smartphones, Murata says.
Mr. Sato estimated Murata sells $2 to $3 worth of parts to most Chinese smartphone makers per handset. Given that Xiaomi alone has forecast shipments of 60 million phones in 2014 and 100 million next year, that is a solid source of revenue. Apple buys $9 to $10 worth of Murata parts for each iPhone, Mr. Sato estimated.
Murata's sales of parts to smartphone makers and other suppliers of communications gear rose about 90% over the past five years, to 430 billion yen in the year ended March 31, boosting overall sales by about 60%, to 847 billion yen.
The Kyoto area, also home to parts makers like Rohm Semiconductor, Nidec Corp. and Kyocera Corp., has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Chinese smartphone boom. TDK, which is based in Tokyo and makes capacitors and other parts, says its sales to Chinese smartphone makers rose 50% in the April-June quarter.
The push to automate smartphone plants in China is providing a further boost to Japanese suppliers. Fanuc Corp., a maker of industrial robots that is based in the shadow of Mount Fuji, in September upgraded its forecast for sales and earnings in the financial year ending in March by 29% and 26%, respectively.
---
Juro Osawa in Hong Kong and Chieko Tsuneoka in Tokyo contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141021eaal00011
PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 21
327 words
20 October 2014
23:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 21 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories in the Wall Street Journal. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.                              
* China's economy grew at its slowest pace for five years in the third quarter, suggesting the government's targeted easing measures to boost economic growth haven't yielded expected results. (http://on.wsj.com/1wl3lbA)                              
* French oil company Total SA said Chairman and Chief Executive Christophe de Margerie died Monday in a plane crash at a Russian airport. (http://on.wsj.com/1tGL8bA)                              
* The U.S. Government Accountability Office on Monday made a rare recommendation that the Department of Homeland Security consider stripping a $210 million contract from a major contractor, delivering a blow to the private company that once carried out most background security checks for the government. (http://on.wsj.com/1CO3PsO)                              
* Samsung Electronics Co said Tuesday the U.S. National Security Agency approved a number of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker's struggling mobile division. (http://on.wsj.com/1wh5ZQs)                              
* The Securities and Exchange Commission is increasingly steering cases to hearings in front of the agency's appointed administrative judges, who found in its favor in every verdict for the 12 months through September, rather than taking them to federal court. (http://on.wsj.com/1DuRxHU)                              
* Sears Holdings Corp is again turning to billionaire CEO Edward Lampert for funds, as the struggling retailer shores up its balance sheet ahead of the holiday season and seeks to reassure vendors worried about its health. (http://on.wsj.com/1s0zwss)                              
* CVS Health Corp is offering a prescription-drug plan that charges patients more if they buy their medications at pharmacies that sell tobacco products, a plan that could benefit the company's own network of drugstores. (http://on.wsj.com/1vFcsFZ)                              
Released: 2014-10-21T05:23:29.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal003bh
 PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 21
Reuters, 23:23, 20 October 2014, 342 words, (English)
Oct 21 (Reuters) - The following are the top stories in the Wall Street Journal. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
Document WCLBA00020141021eaal001gw
China to pitch high-speed trains to California
770 words
20 October 2014
21:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* State-backed China CNR Corp to bid to sell high-speed trains               
* China has world's longest high-speed train network               
* California seeking expressions of interest by Oct. 22               
* $68 bln project seeks up to 95 trains as fast as 354 kph               
By Brenda Goh               
SHANGHAI, Oct 21 (Reuters) - State-backed China CNR Corporation  is making a pitch to sell its high-speed trains to California, signalling China's growing export ambitions for such technology after building the world's longest network in just seven years.               
It marks the first concrete attempt by China to sell high-speed locomotives abroad and establish itself as a credible rival to sector leaders such as Germany's Siemens, Canada's Bombardier and Japan's Kawasaki.               
CNR, its unit Tangshan Railway and U.S.-based SunGroup USA are submitting an expression of interest to California's $68 billion high-speed rail project for a contract to supply up to 95 trains that can travel as fast as 354 kilometres per hour (221 miles per hour), SunGroup told Reuters.               
"We believe that high-speed rail is something that China does very well, and it's a product that we can export across the world," SunGroup spokesman Jonathan Sun said in a phone interview, adding that SunGroup, CNR and Tangshan Railway had been working together for four years.               
Manufacturers are expected to send in expressions of interest by Oct. 22 to the California High Speed Railway Authority, which will later issue formal requests for proposals. About a dozen firms from places such as Japan and Spain are expected to compete, it said.               
California has been candid about its desire for Chinese investment in the 800-mile-long (1,287 kilometres) line from Los Angeles to San Francisco; U.S. media reports said governor Jerry Brown met Chinese rail officials in April last year, including those from Tangshan Railway, to discuss the project.               
No estimates for the contract's value have been published, but in its 2014 business plan the California High Speed Railway Authority estimated each trainset would cost $45 million, based on a purchase of 70 vehicles.               
"We haven't officially gone out to bid yet. This is us saying to the industry that we need trainsets. They have to meet these standards. We're asking, 'Are you interested in learning more, and do you think you could do this for us?'" said Lisa Marie Alley, deputy director of public affairs at the High-Speed Rail Authority.                              
LOFTY AMBITIONS               
China has made no secret of its desire to export its high-speed technology abroad, having built over 12,000 kilometres of track at home in less than a decade. CNR and CSR Corp  are China's largest locomotive makers, while China Railway Construction  and China Railway Group  build track.               
The country has helped or indicated its interest to build thousands of kilometres of high-speed track in countries such as  Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, though it has yet to sell a high-speed train abroad. Premier Li Keqiang - dubbed by local media as China's high-speed rail salesman - has led a drive to promote its technology in Thailand, Britain, Russia and India.               
A Chinese consortium was the only competitor to present a  bid for a tender to build a 210-km high-speed rail line in Mexico, the Mexican government said last week.               
"The Chinese market right now is booming, and there's a very high level of investment, but five, 10 years down the road will it still be at this level? We don't know. So it makes sense for these companies to want to diversify their revenue streams," Barclays analyst Yang Song said.               
The sector's image was, however, marred by a 2011 collision between two high-speed trains near Wenzhou in Zhejiang province that killed 40 people and was later blamed on design flaws.               
Project details published on SunGroup's website show the consortium is putting forward the CRH380BL train, a model used on the Beijing-Shanghai line, which can travel up to 380 kph.               
Sun said an initial order would probably be about 18-20 trains and that they would open a factory to make the trains in California if they won the bid, as required by U.S. law.               
The consortium also intends to bid for the next available contracts to build track sections of the line. A group led by Tutor Perini is building the first segment, while consortiums that include Dragados and Samsung are bidding for the next construction package.               
Released: 2014-10-21T03:49:52.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal001pp
 Seoul to Slow Down Traffic Signals for Elderly
WSJ Blogs, 00:56, 20 October 2014, 341 words, By Kwanwoo Jun, (English)
As South Korea ages more quickly than most other countries on the planet, it¡¦s doing something new to help those in the twilight of their lives: slowing down changes in traffic signals to allow more time to cross the road.
Document WCWSJB0020141020eaak001gt
Tech
Samsung Gets NSA Approval on Some of Its Devices; Galaxy Note 4 Is Among the Devices Cleared to Carry Classified Information
By Min-Jeong Lee 
464 words
20 October 2014
18:43
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SEOUL--Samsung Electronics Co. said Tuesday the U.S. National Security Agency approved a number of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker¡¦s struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs. The company has long believed that winning certifications from top security authorities will help persuade corporate clients to switch to Samsung phones from those made by rivals like BlackBerry Ltd.
Samsung¡¦s mobile security platform, called Knox, allows users to have a virtual ¡§container¡¨ within their smartphones, which separates work and personal apps.
Samsung said the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.¡¦s Boeing Black phone.
In June, Samsung said five of its Knox-installed Galaxy smartphones and tablets received approval from the U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency. The approval added the devices to a list of options for officials. The Galaxy S4 and Galaxy Note 3 smartphones are also on this list.
Whether these approvals translate into big deals for Samsung in the enterprise market remain a question, analysts said. In May, a Samsung executive said that 87 million devices come with Knox installed. But among them, just 1.8 million are actively using Knox.
Samsung had explained that the number of clients is rising and the focus will be initially on having a wider distribution. Samsung declined to provide updated figures on Galaxy devices running the Knox system.
Earlier this year, Samsung said its mobile-security platform would be integrated into the next version of Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system as the two companies bid to increase Android¡¦s appeal among security-minded businesses and governments.
The world¡¦s biggest smartphone maker by shipments said earlier this month its third-quarter operating profit likely fell as much as 62% from a year earlier, hit by weak smartphone sales. This would mark its fourth consecutive decline in operating profit and its steepest year-over-year decline in the past five years.
Samsung, South Korea¡¦s biggest company by market capitalization, is facing stiff competition from Chinese handset makers that are aggressively introducing less costly phones. In the high-end smartphone market, it is battling Apple Inc., which last month unveiled new iPhones with bigger screens that are popular with consumers.
Document WSJO000020141021eaak000xh
 League of Legends Seoul Final Draws Thousands
WSJ Blogs, 23:52, 19 October 2014, 277 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
There was only one place to be, actually or virtually, for e-sports fans on Sunday: the final of the League of Legends World Championship at the main soccer stadium in Seoul.
Document WCWSJB0020141020eaak00105
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Gain, but IBM Weighs on Dow
MoneyBeat, 20 October 2014, 930 words, WSJ Staff, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Brendan McDermid</dd> ...
Document BC08551020141021eaak00001
ABC Close to Selling Out Oscar Telecast at $1.9 Mil an Ad
By Brian Steinberg   
540 words
20 October 2014
17:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - Madison Avenue continues to rush to the Oscars.               
ABC is nearing sell-out of its advertising inventory for its 2015 broadcast of the annual awards from the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts & Sciences, according to two media-buying executives and other people familiar with the situation, even though it is seeking what may be some of the highest prices ever charged for the event.               
ABC is seeking around $1.9 million for a 30-second spot in the program, these people said. The cost of a spot in the most recent broadcast, hosted in March by Ellen DeGeneres, went for between $1.8 million and $1.9 million. The Oscars are set for a Feb. 22 broadcast on ABC with Neil Patrick Harris set to host for the first time and Craig Zadan and Neil Meron reprising their role as producers. Executives from the network could not be reached for comment.               
The slight uptick in ad prices suggests that so-called "event" programming - shows that draw outsize audiences and are only available for a limited duration - has become as important as sports broadcasts as TV-viewing behavior becomes ever more splintered with the rise of time-shifting devices, video streaming and other new technologies. Indeed, NBC is seeking $350,000 or more for 30 seconds' worth of ad time in its coming live broadcast of the play "Peter Pan." The Oscars broadcast typically draws TV's second-biggest primetime audience of the season, resting behind only that generated by the Super Bowl.               
The 86h Oscars reached a 14-year ratings high, with DeGeneres, who took a much-celebrated "selfie" during the show using a phone placed by sponsor Samsung, viewed by an average of 43.7 million people, according to data from Nielsen. In comparison, an average of about 40.4 million watched ABC's 2013 broadcast, hosted by Seth MacFarlane. Total ad revenue generated by ABC's 2013 broadcast came to about $88.3 million, according to Kantar Media, a new high at the time.               
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences limits the amount of advertising allowed to run with the Oscars broadcast, which makes time on the show more scarce. Between nine and 10 minutes of national ad messages run per hour during the Oscars, according to Kantar. The Grammy Awards have run with as many as 14 minutes of commercials per hour.               
Just a few years ago, the Oscars were in something of a post-recession slump. Ad prices in 2009 and 2010 fell as low as $1.3 million to $1.5 million for 30 seconds, as the nation worked itself slowly out of an economic crisis. In 2008, Oscars ads hit a previous high of $1.82 million for a half-minute berth.               
Whether or not the ad prices can stay at current levels will likely hinge on the slate of nominees in the kudoscast in any given year. When the top movies nominated are arty films aimed at older audiences, viewership typically slumps. When the nominees for best films are blockbusters, the ratings increase.               
Released: 2014-10-20T23:42:23.000Z
Document LBA0000020141020eaak00mm8
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Gain, but IBM Weighs on Dow
WSJ Blogs, 17:14, 20 October 2014, 898 words, By WSJ Staff, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 up 0.9% at 1904.02. DJIA up 0.1% at 16399.67. Nasdaq Comp up 1.35% at 4316.07. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.180%. Nymex crude oil down 0.05% at $82.71. Gold up 0.5% at ...
Document WCWSJB0020141020eaak008c1
Ocean Rig, Petrobras agree to 3-year, $1.1 bln drill ships lease
489 words
20 October 2014
13:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Cyprus-based Ocean Rig UDW Inc said on Monday that it signed a $1.1 billion three-year contract with Brazil's state-run oil company, Petroleo Brasileiro SA, to extend a lease on two ultra-deepwater drilling ships.
Petrobras, as the Brazilian oil company is known, will get the ships, the Ocean Rig Corcovado and Ocean Rig Mykonos, for 1,095 days, Ocean Rig said in a statement. The period and price translate into an average rate for each of the vessels of $502,283 per day.
The Corcovado was expected to earn an average day rate of $464,800 and Mykonos $459,700 in the second half of 2014, according to Ocean Rig's second-quarter financial statements. Ultra-deep water is considered water deeper than 1,500 meters (4,921 feet).
Petrobras is trying to secure drilling equipment to execute one of the world's largest corporate expansion programs. Much of the company's five-year plan to invest $221 billion by the end of 2018 will be focused on drilling in new fields, which is expected to help the company's oil and natural gas liquids output in Brazil rise 53 percent to 3.2 million barrels a day.
In September, Petrobras said it had 39 drill-rigs operating in waters deeper than 2,000 meters. Petrobras officials did not respond to requests for comment.
Nicosia, Cyprus-based Ocean Rig, which operates 13 offshore, ultra-deepwater drill rigs, is 59 percent owned by DryShips Inc , a ship-leasing company based in Maroussi, Greece.
On Monday Ocean Rig also said it had provided DryShips with a $120 million short-term loan to help it pay $700 million of 5 percent convertible notes due Dec. 1, 2014.
The Petrobras agreement boosts the company's expected future ship-lease revenue to $5.5 billion, Ocean Rig's Chief Executive Officer George Economou said in the statement.
The Corcovado and Mykonos are both so-called "sixth-generation" drill ships capable of drilling wells while floating in waters up to 10,000 feet deep (3,048 meters) deep. They were built by Samsung Heavy Industries Shipyard in Korea and launched in 2011.
Ocean Rig also said in the statement that it extended the date by which France's Total SA can agree to one-year renewals of its lease of the Ocean Rig Olympia, now working in Angola, to Feb 27. It can seek a second one-year renewal up to a year after agreeing to the first extension.
Additionally, Ocean Rig said it will pay investors a 19 cent per common share dividend, to be paid on or about Nov. 11 for the quarter ending Sept. 30. Olympia is a sister ship of Corcovado and Mykonos. (Reporting by Jeb Blount and Marta Nogueira) 
Released: 2014-10-20T19:11:29.000Z
Document LBA0000020141020eaak00ifx
 Microsoft plans to launch smartwatch within weeks - Forbes
Reuters India, 22:59, 19 October 2014, 172 words, Sam Forgione, (English)
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. is preparing to launch a smartwatch within the next few weeks that will passively track a user's heart rate and work across different mobile platforms, Forbes reported on Sunday. The wearable gadget's ...
Document WC45421020141020eaak0000a
 Microsoft plans to launch smartwatch within weeks -Forbes
Reuters, 17:30, 19 October 2014, 238 words, Sun Oct, (English)
NEW YORK Oct 19 (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. is preparing to launch a smartwatch within the next few weeks that will passively track a user's heart rate and work across different mobile platforms, Forbes reported on Sunday.
Document WCLBA00020141019eaaj003s7
Special
Taiwan Semiconductor¡¦s Chang on the Evolving Chip Industry; Morris Chang Talks About Preparing for the Internet of Things
By Aries Poon 
1,074 words
19 October 2014
11:52
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Morris Chang, the 83-year-old chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., has made bold bets in the past three decades running the world¡¦s biggest contract chip maker.
He founded Taiwan-based TSMC in 1987 when outsourcing production wasn¡¦t a proven business model in the semiconductor industry. Many chip companies at the time, from Intel Corp. to Texas Instruments Inc., invested billions of dollars in their own chip factories. TSMC¡¦s ¡§foundry¡¨ model of manufacturing chips based on others¡¦ designs, however, challenged this conventional business model.
The outsourcing model soon attracted followers including Santa Clara, Calif.-based GlobalFoundries and China¡¦s Semiconductor Manufacturing International Co.
TSMC now is the largest contract manufacturer of computing chips in the world. It has hundreds of clients including Qualcomm Inc., ARM Holdings PLC and Apple Inc. Last year, its revenue totaled almost $20 billion, more than four times what Samsung Electronics Co., the world¡¦s biggest memory-chip maker by revenue, made from contract manufacturing.
But Samsung is coming on strong, and Mr. Chang says TSMC will lose some orders to Samsung next year, when the South Korean chip maker launches its next-generation chip technology. The race will remain heated and is becoming more expensive.
Mr. Chang is also preparing to hand over the reins to his two co-chief executives, CC Wei and Mark Liu.
In an interview at the company¡¦s headquarters in Hsinchu City, south of Taipei, Mr. Chang talked about the challenges TSMC faces. Edited excerpts follow:
Keeping Up
WSJ: At 83, you are one of the rare executives in the tech industry still running a company. How do you keep up with the fast-changing technology, products and market demand?
MR. CHANG: Certainly I don¡¦t make decisions alone. I have experts who advise on technical issues. I have a special team, called the business-development group. They basically tell us and the R&D team what products customers want. Their input is very important to my strategy.
We also have a very realistic market-forecasting group. Now, I still get weekly reports on markets, competition and customers from our vice presidents. Every weekend I spend hours reading reports from them. I¡¦m a very good listener; I get more out of a conversation than most people do.
WSJ: What is the biggest challenge you¡¦re faced with now?
MR. CHANG: Over the next three to five years, we will have to prolong Moore¡¦s law. [Gordon Moore, a co-founder of Intel Corp., said in 1965 that the number of transistors on a chip doubles approximately every two years.] We know how to sustain this for the next five years, but after that I don¡¦t know what to do at this point.
WSJ: TSMC has the largest market share among contract chip makers and managed to lift revenue to new highs each year since 2010. What¡¦s key to maintaining competitiveness?
MR. CHANG: You have to be a leader and galvanize resources to take maximum advantage of a changing external environment. If you¡¦re behind by one year, two years, that¡¦s not good.
We¡¦ve pretty much tripled our budget on research and development and have more than doubled our staff over the past five years. Our annual capital spending between 2002 and 2009 stayed at $2.5 billion; since then, it has risen to $10 billion. We try to utilize our equipment fully all the time, which also explains our profitability.
Our share of the global foundry market is expected to rise from 45% in 2012 to 55% in 2015.
Internet of Things
WSJ: How do you think the semiconductor industry will evolve in three to five years?
MR. CHANG: The Internet of Things is all about connectivity. It¡¦s our mission to provide the capacity and technology to all of those so-called IoT devices, including sensors. I imagine semiconductors will be more pervasive than cars. I have no doubt that people will make a good living out of it.
WSJ: How do you retain staff when companies in China and South Korea for example are offering more competitive salaries?
MR. CHANG: Our staff turnover is quite low; it¡¦s less than 5%. That certainly helps build the organization and a stable relationship with customers. We have a pretty good profit-sharing scheme. Taiwan still enjoys a good supply of hardworking, young engineers. We¡¦ve actually hired a few experienced people from outside Taiwan as well to work on a more advanced chip-manufacturing process.
WSJ: Will you consider looking for a successor outside TSMC?
MR. CHANG: I don¡¦t think that will work. People inside TSMC wouldn't like that idea.
WSJ: How do you see the competition?
MR. CHANG: Competition is always heated in technological innovation and will remain so at least over the next three to five years.
Earlier this year, we were honest with our customers and told them our schedule to ramp up on 16-nanometer [16 billionths of a meter] technology will be later than Samsung¡¦s comparable 14-nanometer technology. They appreciated our honesty and made plans accordingly.
So in 2015, Samsung¡¦s market share in the latest production process will be higher than ours, but we will regain market leadership in that segment in 2016. Feedback from customers is good, and that¡¦s why I¡¦m so confident.
China Rising
WSJ: Where will the next round of competition come from?
MR. CHANG: China. The country has the manpower, and it is becoming more talented. Many of them have studied abroad, especially in the U.S. As in the semiconductor industry, the government is heavily subsidizing the sector, and its competitiveness is improving very quickly. Electronics brands like Huawei and Lenovo are also growing as smartphones and tablets are becoming more common, while Internet companies such as Alibaba and Tencent are expanding at a very fast pace.
WSJ: So, how can CEOs prepare for that competition?
MR. CHANG: Technology and patents are a company¡¦s biggest and most important assets, and we should protect them. Selling them for short-term gains is very unwise. Intellectual property is a long-term competitive advantage.
Mr. Poon is a reporter for The Wall Street Journal in Taipei. He can be reached at aries.poon@wsj.com. 
Document WSJO000020141019eaaj003vb
S.Korea economy lifted by switch away from deposit based rentals
By Choonsik Yoo   
879 words
19 October 2014
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 20 (Reuters) - For a country trying to avoid the menace of deflation, South Korea is receiving timely help from unusual quarters - the country's landlord and their tenants.               
Interest rates at historic lows have wrought a change in   traditional rental contracts that could gradually unleash tens of billions of dollars for more productive uses like consumption and home buying.               
Landlords have for decades operated the "jeonse" rental system, whereby tenants pay a deposit that can be more than half the home's value instead of having to pay a monthly rent.               
There is a huge pool of funds being under utilised. Nomura estimates that there was some $400 billion tied up in jeonse deposits in 2012, equal to one-third of South Korea's annual economic output.               
But the jeonse system appears to be going out of fashion, as most landlords can't make high enough returns from stashing the money in bank deposits paying just 2.5 percent - they will go down again after the central bank lowered its policy rate further last week.               
Using the funds as leverage to further invest in the real estate market holds little attraction for landlords either. Prices have been flat.               
Jeonse accounted for slightly more than half of rentals early this year, sharply down from nearly 70 percent in early 2011, land ministry data showed.               
"The sharp drop in interest rates is the most important factor behind this phenomenon as home owners want to make up for the shrinking income as much as possible," Kim Eun-kyung, a consultant at Samsung Securities said.               
"The jeonse deposit money has mostly been illiquid, but the declining jeonse contracts will turn the money more liquid,  more ready to spend on consumption or paying back loans, although this will happen very gradually," Kim added.               
South Korea's ageing population - the number of working-age people between 15 and 64 will begin shrinking from 2017 - also heralds lower demand for rentals, as typically demand comes from younger people.               
Landlords have responded to the changing market environment by either charging a monthly rental, or asking for a substantially higher jeonse deposit, which should further reduce demand for such rentals.               
Either way, the prospect of less money locked up in the jeonse system, and more becoming available for people to spend, invest, or buy their own homes should be a boon for the economy.               
Young Sun Kwon, an economist at Nomura in Hong Kong and a former official with South Korea's central bank, estimated that renters have borrowed about 64 trillion won ($60 billion) to fund jeonse deposits.               
The trend away from jeonse rentals comes at a good time for Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan, who fears Asia's fourth-largest economy could go the way of Japan and slip into deflation. The extra money coming into circulation will help his strategy to lift asset prices as a way to boost consumption.               
Lee Yeon-hee, an office worker in her 20s in Seoul, had rented through a jeonse contract, with a deposit of 80 million won, until her landlord demanded an extra 15 million won increase. At the same time, with South Korea's economy slowing, her father's small-scale machine assembly business failed.               
"I couldn't accept the demand for an increased jeonse," Lee said. She now pays a monthly rent of 400,000 won, and has used the returned deposit to pay off a loan and support her parents.                                             
NEW ERA, OUTDATED SYSTEM               
As jeonse rentals have fallen and the benefits of Choi's policies come through, analysts see clear signs that people are using money for more productive purposes, like home buying.               
Home prices have risen for 13 consecutive months and, according to data from Kookmin Bank, have gained 1.41 percent so far this year, following a mere 0.37 percent gain last year and a fall of 0.03 percent in 2012.               
The jeonse system developed decades ago, when banks' lending was focused on financing South Korea's rapid industrialisation, and the mortgage lending market was under-developed in a country emerging from the ravages of post-war poverty.               
The country passed through a long phase of high economic growth, which fuelled inflation, high interest rates and rising property prices, all of which sustained the jeonse system in the past.               
"When the country was short of capital and short of proper retail banking service, the jeonse system contributed a lot to economic development, but times have changed and much of the money does little for economic growth," said Kwon.               
If just 5 percent of money now tied up in jeonse deposits flowed back into consumer spending, it would amount to 20 trillion won, equivalent to 3 percent of annual private consumption, according to Reuters' calculations based on central bank data.               
While the government has not said it wants to abolish jeonse, some officials say in private that waning popularity of the jeonse system was good for the country over the long term.               
"The country should abolish it, and as long as it is done in an orderly manner, it will make big contribution to the economy," said Kwon.               
Released: 2014-10-19T22:00:00.000Z
Document LBA0000020141019eaaj00hdd
Personal Finance
Samsung: Nice Stock if You Can Get It; World¡¦s Leading Chip Maker Is Highly Profitable
By Andrew Bary 
512 words
18 October 2014
15:24
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
A cash-rich Samsung Electronics is one of the most attractive technology stocks in the world.
The South Korean maker of cellphones, tablets, memory chips, display screens and televisions is out of favor in the investment community because of concerns about plunging profits in its mobile-phone division. Investors, however, may be overreacting because the company remains highly profitable thanks to the strength in its semiconductor business. It¡¦s the world¡¦s leading maker of memory chips.
Samsung shares (005930.Korea), which are mainly traded in South Korea, recently fetched 1.12 million won each, or about $1,060, based on an exchange rate of 1,060 won to the dollar. The company has a market value of about $150 billion. Fans point to a flush balance sheet with $60 billion of net cash and investments, equal to 40% of its market value.
Samsung trades for just eight times projected 2014 earnings per share and for about five times earnings excluding the cash. There are few giant companies in the world with such a low valuation. The S&P 500 index trades for 16 times estimated 2014 earnings.
¡§The semiconductor division and the cash are worth more than the current market cap,¡¨ says Mark Newman, an analyst with Bernstein Research. ¡§That means that investors are getting for free the world¡¦s largest maker of handsets, the leading display business and the biggest and most profitable TV producer.¡¨ He has an ¡§outperform¡¨ rating and a price target of 1.65 million won, or nearly 50% above the current share price.
Mr. Newman thinks Samsung¡¦s mobile-phone business should stabilize due to the company¡¦s favorable cost position, world-wide distribution and hardware advantages.
One of Samsung¡¦s strengths is its industry-leading display business. Samsung is expected to be first to market¡Xprobably in 2016¡Xwith cellphones offering foldable displays that open into tablets. Samsung¡¦s innovative technology should soon be on display in the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge ¡§phablet¡¨ whose screen wraps around one edge of the device.
Buying Samsung can be hard for U.S. investors. The company has no U.S.-listed shares and no plans for such a listing. Two brokerage firms, Fidelity Investments and Merrill Lynch, allow their customers to buy Samsung¡¦s Korean shares, but UBS and Morgan Stanley don¡¦t.
Samsung also has London-listed shares traded in dollars. Each share, now around $530, is equal to half a Korean share. However, the London shares are geared toward U.S. institutions, making it tough for retail investors to buy them. Non-U.S. investors, however, face few restrictions on the London shares.
Investors can get diluted exposure to Samsung through the iShares MSCI South Korea Capped exchange-traded fund (EWY), which has a 20% weighting in Samsung. The Korean market is historically inexpensive, trading for about 12 times forward earnings.
Andrew Bary is an associate editor for Barron¡¦s. For more stories, see 
Document WSJO000020141019eaai000b5
 Global Telecom Conference in Busan Stirs Ebola Fears
WSJ Blogs, 01:07, 17 October 2014, 475 words, By Jaeyeon Woo, (English)
Concern is mounting about a possible outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus just days before the opening of a global telecommunications conference in Busan.
Document WCWSJB0020141017eaah001e2
 Soju Makers Aim to Turn Fire Water Into Liquid Gold
WSJ Blogs, 03:10, 17 October 2014, 785 words, By Joshua Hall, (English)
More of the Korean spirit soju is made than any other liquor in the world. Often mixed with beer in South Korea to accelerate intoxication, it¡¦s considered an essential social lubricant.
Document WCWSJB0020141019eaah0002t
Tech
Pro Gamers Battle in Seoul for Championship Trophies; South Korea Hosts Finals for League of Legends, Dota 2; Former Show Jumper ¡¥Gives Hype to the Game¡¦
By Annette Ekin 
1,228 words
17 October 2014
01:33
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SEOUL¡XWhen Souaib Hanaf arrived just after noon on a recent Sunday at Nexon Arena, just off a busy road in the Seoul neighborhood of Gangnam, several dozen young men had already been waiting outside the e-sports stadium three hours to get the best seats for the afternoon¡¦s big video game championship.
Mr. Hanaf, a 27-year-old French-Moroccan pro gamer who rode show-jumping horses as a teenager, was there to deliver English play-by-play commentary for the finals of the third season of Korea Dota 2 League, or KDL.
Two Korean professional gaming teams¡XMVP Phoenix and Pokerface¡Xbattled in Dota 2, a real-time strategy fantasy game where each of the team¡¦s five players set out to destroy their opponent¡¦s base for a prize of $10,000.
¡§[I] say what¡¦s happening, give some hype to the game, get the spectators excited about it,¡¨ said Mr. Hanaf.
Inside the nearly 1,700-square-meter theater, owned by the South Korean video game company Nexon, the professional gamers, who looked to be in their early 20s and sported team tracksuit pants, t-shirts, and sneakers, got their hair and make-up done. Some fans came in costumes.
Dota 2, developed by the U.S. company Valve Corp., is relatively new to Korean e-sports and has a small presence¡XNexon published it there in October 2013, three months after its official release in the U.S., where it is much more popular.
That final¡Xwhich MVP Phoenix won¡Xwas just a glimpse of what¡¦s expected to be a much more raucous scene this weekend: The sold-out final where a record audience of about 40,000 is expected for Riot Games¡¦ fourth annual international event, the League of Legends World Championship, at Seoul¡¦s Sangam Stadium, a venue of the 2002 FIFA World Cup.
League of Legends¡Xa fantasy strategy game developed by U.S.-based Riot Games, the bulk of which is owned by Chinese company Tencent Holdings Ltd.¡Xis the world¡¦s dominant e-sport. In South Korea alone, the game has around 40% of the country¡¦s online players, according to Gametrics, a website that tracks games played at the nation¡¦s popular Internet caf?s, known as PC bangs.
The tournament matches up the world¡¦s top eight LoL teams. This year¡¦s final will feature China¡¦s Star Horn Royal Club and South Korea¡¦s Samsung White team, which is sponsored by Samsung Electronics.
South Korea and China are the only two countries with their own divisions in LoL tournaments.
¡§[Seoul] is kind of well-known as the birthplace of e-sports,¡¨ said Dustin Beck, vice president of e-sports at Riot Games.
While other regions are catching up, East Asian players remain so dominant that some teams are being stacked with Chinese and Korean players¡Xone Chinese team even moved to North America, where it would face a less competitive regional field.
Buzz that more teams were looking to relocate prompted Riot Games to implement a rule ensuring that five-player LoL teams have at least three members who are actually from the region they represent.
¡§We want to make sure that each regional league maintains the identity of its local region,¡¨ Mr. Beck said. ¡§For example, you can¡¦t just have a Chinese team pick up and move to Europe and potentially represent Europe in a world championship when you have all Chinese players on a team.¡¨
¡§It doesn¡¦t really seem fair on the surface,¡¨ said Erik Lonnquist, an American LoL commentator based in Seoul. ¡§[But] I think it¡¦s fairly necessary to help the North American and European teams grow and cultivate more local talent.¡¨
The LoL final will be broadcast on ESPN3, complete with a live performance by the U.S. band Imagine Dragons. Last year¡¦s final, which was also won by a Korean team, had 32 million viewers online.
Mr. Hanaf¡¦s commentary at the Dota 2 final was broadcast on the video platform Twitch, which Amazon.com Inc. agreed to purchase for $970 million in August. While Nexon Arena¡¦s basement-level spectators¡¦ area was filled to its 260-person capacity, more than 6,000 people watched the broadcasts in Korean, and over 110,000 viewers tuned in to Twitch.
The video game competitions known as e-sports took off around the world more than 15 years ago, but they found mainstream acceptance much more quickly in South Korea. And like another Korean cultural force, K-Pop, video games are big business in the country. Last year, the games industry brought in an estimated $9 billion in revenue according to a senior statistics researcher at the government agency, Korea Creative Content Agency.
Andrew Pender¡Xan Australian pro gaming commentator based in Seoul and a veteran pro gamer¡Xsaid a combination of factors, including the country¡¦s widespread broadband connectivity, rigorous training and a gaming infrastructure of team houses and coaches fueled the growth there.
Some foreigners move to South Korea to practice for a time or do e-sports commentary, or, in rarer cases, like that of Mr. Hanaf, to forge a pro gaming career.
Mr. Hanaf moved to Seoul in 2010 to play in a new league for StarCraft II, the sequel to the popular StarCraft, a real-time space adventure strategy game developed and published by U.S. company Blizzard Entertainment Inc. in the late ¡¦90s.
He had been living in Paris, halfheartedly pursuing a degree in IT, mostly to keep his parents happy, he said. But he¡¦d distract himself with video games, which he was good at, and would get invited to tournaments in Sweden.
The new league gave him the impetus to quit his studies and give pro gaming a shot; Mr. Hanaf said he wanted to compete with the best. The world¡¦s top 16 StarCraft II players, ranked by the World Championship Series held by Blizzard, are all Korean.
Mr. Hanaf achieved some success with StarCraft II, but late last year switched to Dota 2 after he lost his regular training spot in a foreign gamers¡¦ house in Seoul and was reduced to practicing in PC bangs. He most recently played with Team Muhan in the recently concluded Korea Dota 2 League tournament, and isn¡¦t currently with a team.
He makes a living now from tournament earnings, the occasional acting or television extra work, streaming his practice games, and doing commentary for KDL.
Mr. Hanaf, who grew up in Paris and Casablanca, played game consoles from three years of age. He also rode horses from a young age, and did competitive show jumping for about five years until he was 17, winning regional tournaments and placing second in a national competition at 15 in Morocco.
Like other pro gamers, when Mr. Hanaf talks about playing video games he sounds like an athlete. He trains daily by playing at home on his PC to ¡§stay in shape, get better¡¨ and watches match replays to sharpen his skills. ¡§The only difference is that we do this through computer games instead of physical activities, so it¡¦s like mental sports I guess.¡¨
Document WSJO000020141017eaah002s2
Tech
South Korea¡¦s Pantech Files for Bankruptcy in the U.S.; Mobile-Phone Maker Faces Heavy Competition and Saturated Market
By Tom Corrigan 
467 words
17 October 2014
10:43
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Pantech Co., a South Korean mobile-phone maker, has sought the protection of a U.S. court as part of its larger restructuring efforts abroad.
The company filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection¡Xthe section of the Bankruptcy Code that deals with international insolvencies¡Xat the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Atlanta Thursday afternoon. If recognized by a U.S. judge, Pantech will receive the benefits of U.S. bankruptcy law, including the so-called automatic stay that halts lawsuits and prevents creditors from seizing assets.
In August, the company filed for the equivalent of Chapter 11 in South Korea after months of trying to restructure its debt.
¡§Ongoing U.S. litigation drains Pantech of its resources and attention away from its rehabilitation efforts,¡¨ the company¡¦s chief executive, Joonwoo Lee, said in court papers filed Thursday.
Pantech listed 14 continuing lawsuits in the U.S., all related to patent disputes.
Pantech relies on sales in South Korea for the majority of its 1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion) in annual revenue, but it faces heavy competition and a saturated market. The company was also hit with government restrictions on excessive handset subsidies earlier this year, which resulted in penalties for South Korea¡¦s three mobile carriers, including a 45-day ban on smartphone sales.
¡§Pantech experienced a dramatic drop in domestic sales because the Korea Communications Commission imposed a suspension on Pantech¡¦s customers, the mobile network carriers, in March 2014,¡¨ the company said in court papers.
According to Pantech, that suspension caused a significant strain on its cash flow.
Pantech initiated a restructuring process in March, which led the company to seek ¡§judicially supervised rehabilitation¡¨ at a district court in Seoul in August.
The company, founded in 1991, underwent its first restructuring from December 2006 to December 2011, court documents show.
Until last year, Pantech sold more phones than Apple Inc. in South Korea, making it the country¡¦s third largest phone-maker after Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. Major shareholders included Qualcomm Inc. and Samsung.
Pantech posted an operating loss of 297 billion won in 2013 and an operating loss of 78 billion won in 2012. Those heavy losses have hampered the company in its search for potential buyers.
A timeline for the company¡¦s restructuring hasn¡¦t yet been announced, but the first hearing is scheduled to take place Nov. 7 in Seoul. In its petition for Chapter 15, Pantech listed total assets between $100 million and $500 million and liabilities as high as $1 billion.
The case number is 14-70482. A judge hasn¡¦t yet been assigned.
Min-Jeong Lee contributed to this article. 
Document WSJO000020141017eaah004bl
U.S. FCC to look into new-generation wireless networks
444 words
17 October 2014
13:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
WASHINGTON, Oct 17 (Reuters) - In the words of Buzz Lightyear, and U.S. Federal Communications Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel on Friday, U.S. regulators will look "to infinity and beyond" to harness new technology that can help build a new generation of mobile wireless connections.
The FCC on Friday voted unanimously to open a so-called "notice of inquiry" into what it and the industry can do to turn a new swath of very high-frequency airwaves, previously deemed unusable for mobile networks, into mobile-friendly frequencies.
The FCC's examination would serve as a regulatory backdrop for research into the next generation of wireless technology, sometimes referred to as 5G and which may allow wireless connections to carry a thousand times more traffic.
"Today we're stepping in front of the power curve," FCC AaChairman Tom Wheeler said on Friday at the meeting.
In question are frequencies above 24 gigahertz (GHz), sometimes called millimeter waves, that have previously been deemed technically unweildy for mobile connections, though have the potential to carry large amounts of data and give the promise of lightning-fast speeds.
Millimeter waves work best over short distances and have required a direct line-of-sight connection to a receiver. They are now largely used for point-to-point microwave connections.
The FCC said it will study what technologies could help get around the technological and practical obstacles and what kind of regulatory regime could help a variety of technologies to flourish on those airwaves, including the potential for services other than mobile.
The U.S. wireless industry continues to work on deploying the 4G connections, though some equipment manufacturers, such as Samsung are already testing data transmission on the higher frequencies.
"While we will always work to locate more cleared licensed spectrum under 3 GHz, we also need to expand our search to find other complementary spectrum bands, and this Notice is an important step in that effort," Meredith Attwell Baker, head of CTIA-The Wireless Association, said in a statement.
Google on Monday asked the FCC for permission to conduct tests on some of the extremely high-frequency airwaves, which experts say may provide the foundation for a wireless version of its high-speed fiber Internet service.
Rosenworcel said growing data demand made it necessary for next-generation wireless networks to carry heavy traffic, quickly and without draining the phones' batteries. "How do we meet these demands? We look up. Way, way, up. To infinity and beyond," she said at the meeting. (Reporting by Alina Selyukh and Marina Lopes; editing by Andrew Hay) 
Released: 2014-10-17T19:28:18.000Z
Document LBA0000020141017eaah00jrk
Tech
First Impressions of the iPad Air 2: Refreshed but Not Reinvented; It¡¦s Thinner, Lighter and Has Improvements That Matter
By Geoffrey A. Fowler 
765 words
17 October 2014
06:11
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Meet the new iPad Air: It looks very similar to the old one. Is that OK?
We¡¦ve come to expect every Apple Inc. product refresh will be thinner, lighter and have a better camera¡Xand the iPad Air 2 that Apple unveiled on Thursday checks all those boxes. It also now includes the iPhone¡¦s Touch ID sensor, which replaces passwords with your thumbprint.
But anyone looking for stop-the-presses new capabilities in the new iPad may be disappointed. Tablet sales growth across the market has slowed as consumers hang on to older models that still work OK and shift toward larger ¡§phablet¡¨-style phones or hybrid laptop-tablets with keyboards.
There¡¦s talk that tablets, just four years old, are having an identity crisis.
That¡¦s premature. I got to spend a little time with the iPad Air 2 after Apple¡¦s event on Thursday. My first impression is that Apple wants to make the statement that iPads are something unique¡Xnot all-in-one computers or laptop replacements. They¡¦re a kind of computer you can hold in your hands that immerses you in watching video, reading books, browsing the Web, playing games, and completing tasks that are best done with fingers on a touch screen.
And for those tasks, Apple didn¡¦t need to reinvent the tablet but improve on it. I think they¡¦ve done that¡Xbut there could be more, particularly where business people and younger users are concerned.
First, the new iPad Air is 18% thinner than its already stick-thin predecessor. You can feel that when you hold it with one hand along the bottom. It¡¦s lighter, too, though that was harder to notice when I compared old and new iPads, one in each hand.
The thinner form has another advantage¡Xone that may be my favorite feature: It allowed Apple to cut down on glare by about 50%. (Apple says slimming the number of different components in the screen from three to one reduces the gaps between layers that reflect light, producing glare.) I could see that clearly holding the older Air and Air 2 side by side.
When I caught the reflection of an overhead light, text on the old model became unreadable but remained clear on the new one. The big test will be direct sunlight, which I didn¡¦t get a chance to try on Thursday.
I¡¦m also glad to see that Apple included the Touch ID sensor found on recent models of the iPhone. That will make unlocking the screen and making online purchases easier on a device that¡¦s great for leaning back and shopping. While it supports the new Apple Pay for making online payments, you won¡¦t be able to use it to pay in physical stores.
The iPad Air 2 also got a camera upgrade, though I¡¦ll hold off on judgment until I¡¦ve been able to test it in lowlight situations, where many phone and tablet cameras struggle.
But there are improvements I¡¦m still waiting to see that would extend the iPad¡¦s usefulness without turning it into an inferior laptop. I had been hoping that the new iPad might support app multitasking like the Samsung Galaxy Tab S and Windows 8, which let you split your screen between, say, Twitter and a Web browser.
While I often use a Bluetooth keyboard when working on my iPad, I¡¦m surprised Apple hasn¡¦t embraced the keyboard case like its competitors. There are times when you just want to type and don¡¦t want to strain on a glass keyboard or pull out a laptop.
And any parent can tell you that iPads are great ways to entertain¡Xand even teach¡Xlittle ones. But there needs to be a way to corral all of the kid-friendly material in one place and leave Junior to it. Just saying ixnay to browsers and cameras isn¡¦t the answer.
For many people, the question is whether the new capabilities in the iPad Air 2 warrant an upgrade. With a new form factor and better screen, the iPad Air 2 is a bigger leap than we saw between the iPhone 5 and iPhone 5S. If you¡¦re buying something you want to last for years ahead, it¡¦s a great choice. But it also isn¡¦t a whole new kind of tablet¡Xand last year¡¦s models just got $100 cheaper.
Document WSJO000020141016eaag0080z
 Xiaomi Flash Sales Prove Popular in India
WSJ Blogs, 05:03, 17 October 2014, 374 words, By R. Jai Krishna, (English)
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, which has overtaken Apple and Samsung in China, is working its way into the Indian market using sudden online sales and high-end handsets priced at close to cost.
Document WCWSJB0020141017eaah002e5
 iPhone 6 Starts Selling in Delhi¡KEventually
WSJ Blogs, 03:45, 17 October 2014, 502 words, By R. Jai Krishna, (English)
As midnight came and went early Friday, customers at a central New Delhi cellphone store waiting to be among the first in India to own an iPhone 6 started to check the time on their now-outdated iPhones.
Document WCWSJB0020141017eaah001xi
 Chipmaker SanDisk forecasts lower revenue
Reuters, 21:55, 16 October 2014, 314 words, Soham Chatterjee, (English)
Sandisk's new solid state drive is displayed at the Sandisk booth during the 2014 Computex exhibition at the TWTC Nangang exhibition hall in Taipei June 3, 2014.
Document WCLBA00020141017eaah0012y
TSMC Remains Upbeat After Latest Jump in Profit
By Aries Poon   
769 words
17 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
17
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
TAIPEI -- After Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. logged its most profitable quarter, executives remain upbeat about how Apple Inc. and other mobile-device makers will propel its revenue even higher in coming years.
TSMC, the world's largest contract chip maker by revenue, said Thursday that net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 totaled 76.34 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$2.51 billion). It was up 47% from NT$51.95 billion a year earlier, beating the company's previous record of NT$59.7 billion in the second quarter and exceeding analysts' estimates. Revenue rose 29% from a year earlier to NT$209.05 billion, also a record.
Although the explosive growth of global smartphone and tablet sales has waned, TSMC's increasing market share because of technological advances has helped the company boost its earnings at rates stronger than most chip makers.
Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho predicted revenue in the current quarter of between NT$217 billion and NT$220 billion -- as much as 5% higher than the previous quarter and possibly another record. It is largely in line with analysts' estimates.
"If we take away the contribution from 20-nanometer [a process technology adopted by the facility that produces microprocessors for iPhones], the fourth-quarter revenue will probably be down by [a rate] close to double digits," Mark Liu, one of the company's two chief executives, said during an investor conference in Taipei Thursday.
Revenue from the 20-nanometer facility will rise to 20% of total revenue in the fourth quarter, from 9% in the third quarter, the company said.
Last year, the Taiwan-based chip maker was among the first to migrate to the 20-nanometer chip-process technology from the less advanced 28-nanometer process. The transition allowed it to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for the order from the iPhone maker. TSMC started shipping chips to Apple in late June.
This lead lifted not only TSMC's revenue. The boost from Apple is also apparent among many Taiwanese companies that churn out components for the Cupertino, Calif., company. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., commonly known as Foxconn, and Largan Precision Co. have also reported strong earnings because of business from Apple.
Besides Apple, TSMC also makes microprocessors for hundreds of other clients including Qualcomm Inc. More than half of TSMC's third-quarter revenue came from producing chips for smartphones and tablets.
At the same conference, TSMC's other chief executive, C.C. Wei, said the company expects to start mass-producing with the next-generation 16-nanometer process technology by the end of the second quarter of next year. It will be about one quarter earlier than the company's previous forecast, but will still be months behind Intel Corp. and Samsung.
"Right now, more than 1,000 engineers are working on that. Our experience in the 20-nanometer process helps us ramp up the 16-nanometer much faster than we expected," Mr. Wei said, adding that revenue from this process technology will kick in during the fourth quarter of 2015.
In a bid to regain the lead in technological advances, TSMC Chairman Morris Chang said in a recent interview that the company has committed a "blank check" to developing the finer 10-nanometer process technology "in the shortest time possible." The Taiwanese company plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC's design in the fourth quarter of next year.
Ms. Ho said the company plans to spend more than US$10 billion next year to develop and build advanced facilities. The company has earmarked US$9.6 billion as capital expenditures for this year.
Capacity will grow 12% this year, higher than the company's previous target, Ms. Ho said. Capacity expansion will likely be at a similar rate next year, she added.
A surprise earnings warning last week from Microchip Technology Inc. has recently clouded the outlook for the semiconductor sector.
While many chip makers don't share the pessimism of the Arizona maker of computer chips, analysts say weaker-than-expected demand for electronics remains a possibility amid the uneven economic growth of China and the U.S.
"Demand from our customers doesn't validate the comment from Microchip," said Mr. Liu. "Demand from China is still normal, maybe a little deviation from seasonal [levels], but demand for fourth-generation [mobile application] and telecom infrastructure remains aggressive."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141016eaah0001j
 Netflix Earnings Dissapoint
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 16 October 2014, 861 words, (English)
Summary: Netflix shares drop on their recent earnings results; Paypal keeps growing; HBO giving cord cutters what they want; Amazon announces seasonal hiring intentions and a look at the Galaxy Note 4. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories ...
Document MMSAJW0020141016eaag00001
Tech
Samsung Galaxy Note 4 Review: The Phablet Pioneer Still Leads the Way; The Pocketable Device Has Serious Multitasking Power, but Can It Beat the iPhone 6 Plus?
By Joanna Stern 
1,301 words
16 October 2014
05:38
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I was convinced Samsung was off its rocker when I saw the first Galaxy Note phablet in 2011.
While most smartphone makers were expanding phones to comfortably fit in a human hand, Samsung decided to release one closer in size to a Times Square billboard. And what better way to navigate that vast screen than with a stylus the size of a toothpick?
Of course, I was the crazy one. People started buying Samsung¡¦s kooky, oversized creation¡Xa lot of them. Other companies stopped laughing and started making their own. Now, almost exactly three years later, even Apple has bowed to the pressure, releasing an iPhone with a phablet-class 5.5-inch screen.
Samsung doesn¡¦t plan to lag behind those who have followed in its Sasquatchian footsteps, especially not its fiercest rival in Cupertino, Calif. The Galaxy Note 4, which hits Verizon, AT&T and Sprint stores this week for $300 with two-year contract, has a higher-resolution 2560x1440-pixel, 5.7-inch display and much improved hardware design. It also has new software tricks that take better advantage of the roomy screen space than the competition.
It¡¦s wrong to call the Note an oversized smartphone at this point. It¡¦s a pocketable computing device with serious multitasking power. But while Samsung is further ahead on big-screen software features than any competitor, the other half of the software story isn¡¦t as rosy. The Note 4 still lacks that all-important mobile essential: an intuitive, cleanly designed user interface.
Better Hardware, Brilliant Display
My years of cringing at the Galaxy Note¡¦s design are over.
No more shiny backing that shows my slimy fingerprints, no more kid-toy plastic with faux leather stitching. Instead, an aluminum frame surrounds the Note 4, making it feel like a well-made device. The fakeness of the latest synthetic-leather back is justified by being incredibly smooth and soft¡Xand easier to grip than an iPhone 6 Plus.
The design is far from perfect. The chamfered edges of the phone can be sharp, (I prefer the curves of the iPhone 6 Plus and the new Moto X), the bezel¡¦s subtle lines don¡¦t match the rest of the aesthetic and, unlike the Galaxy S5, the Note 4 isn¡¦t rugged or waterproof.
Don¡¦t get me wrong, Samsung has done what I thought was impossible: created a phone that looks and feels good.
Like the iPhone 6 Plus, the Note 4 outlasts smaller-screen phones because it houses a larger battery. After a 14-hour day of heavy use, including navigation and snapping lots of photos, I hit the 5% battery mark¡Xand kept going until bedtime using the ¡§ultra power-saving mode.¡¨ By disabling lots of services and turning everything you see black and white, it can squeeze 24 more hours out of a Note 4 using only 10% of the battery, says Samsung.
In a challenge to see who would drop first, I cranked the brightness up on both the Galaxy Note and the iPhone 6 Plus and streamed video. They both lasted 8? hours.
Remember Ellen DeGeneres¡¦s Oscar selfie seen ¡¦round the world? She and Bradley Cooper, who snapped the shot, used last year¡¦s Note, and they¡¦d probably be more impressed with the improved 3.7-megapixel front-facing camera and its new selfie tricks.
Not only would all those celebrity faces now look crisper, but Brad would¡¦ve had an easier time just tapping the heart-rate sensor on the rear of the phone to enable the shutter. Jared Leto¡¦s face may not have been chopped off if the wide selfie mode was enabled. Though if not done carefully, the feature can incorrectly stitch photos and render faces grotesquely distorted.
The 16-megapixel rear camera also does selfies, using facial recognition or voice command to capture your mug. The less self-absorbed will be more impressed with the quality of its vibrant, well-balanced shots, and how well digitally zoomed-in shots now look.
Like on the iPhone 6 Plus, optical image stabilization helped capture sharper nighttime and moving shots. However, I found the iPhone 6 Plus¡¦ faster shutter and auto focus combined with better low-light shots, gave it a slight edge in the camera department.
Here¡¦s the twist: The iPhone 6 Plus may take better photos, but photos (and everything else) appear sharper and more vibrant on the Note¡¦s gorgeous display. That¡¦s because Samsung¡¦s Super AMOLED screen has about 1.5 million more pixels than the iPhone 6 Plus¡¦s 5.5-inch 1920x1080-pixel display. Text looks crisper and blues, greens and reds are more vivid, though not necessarily as natural.
Powerful Software Just Shy of Phabulous
With software features that take advantage of all that screen real estate, Samsung shows it¡¦s got more phablet smarts than Apple and others. The result is a more productive device, much closer to that of a tablet or laptop.
Like on previous Notes, you can put two apps side by side or on top of each other, but now you can drag text between the windows. Only some apps support the feature, but I was able to highlight a portion of a colleague¡¦s article in the browser and drag it into an email.
You can turn the main Android home screen into a pseudo computer desktop with a feature that lets you pop out small windowed versions of select apps. You aren¡¦t going to want a mini email app open all day, but it¡¦s helpful for at-a-glance information. On a recent trip, I put up a tiny Google map showing my destination.
I still can¡¦t get excited about the S Pen stylus, despite the fact it¡¦s more precise and pressure sensitive than before. I generally use the styli I was born with to navigate the screen because they¡¦re always on, and I can type faster with my fingers than I can write with a pen. However, new tricks, such as leaving yourself ¡§action memos¡¨ on the home screen, or highlighting multiple photos by dragging the pen across them, will appeal to people who prefer writing and drawing.
The disappointment is that the Note 4¡¦s tricks are masked by a user experience I can only describe as ugly. The neon green and teal, those bright, tacky icons¡Xit all makes the phone hard to look at. And that¡¦s before wading through the third-party apps and promotional widgets that Samsung loves to pre-load. Despite the phone¡¦s quad-core processor, I experienced sporadic slowdowns, stuttering in apps and too many of the dreaded ¡§This app has stopped¡¨ messages. I blame the bloatware.
I wish Samsung wasn¡¦t bucking the current trend of Android phone makers striving for more polished, uncluttered design. The new Moto X uses a clean beautiful version of Android, and Google¡¦s new Nexus 6, also built by Motorola, will have the next version of Android¡Xand an even bigger screen than the Note 4. Meanwhile, iOS continues to be as polished as it comes.
Yet no other phone maker can deliver such a clear vision of why the future will be written on these smartphone-tablet hybrids. It may not meet my high aesthetic standards, software-wise, but multitasking on that big, beautiful display makes the Note feel more productive and powerful than any other phablet out there. Even the iPhone 6 Plus. This is the best phone I have seen from Samsung in a long time¡Xmaybe ever.
Document WSJO000020141015eaaf003bm
 Thinking of Buying an iPhone 6 Plus? Read This First
WSJ Blogs, 04:51, 16 October 2014, 211 words, By Drew Evans, (English)
I was convinced? Samsung  was off its rocker when I saw the first Galaxy Note phablet in 2011.
While most smartphone makers were expanding phones to comfortably fit in a human hand, Samsung decided to release one closer in size to a Times ...
Document WCWSJB0020141016eaag0018h
 Thinner iPads, 5K iMacs and More: What Apple Did Today
WSJ Blogs, 15:31, 16 October 2014, 634 words, By Wilson Rothman, (English)
While it's safe to say the Earth didn't shatter when Tim Cook took the stage today in Cupertino, Calif., the Apple CEO couldn't stop beaming¡Xand with good reason. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are setting sales records, the massive Apple Pay ...
Document WCWSJB0020141016eaag006bu
 Apple Unveils iPad Air 2, iMac With Retina, More ¡V Recap
WSJ Blogs, 13:30, 16 October 2014, 4396 words, (English)
We are under way!?Personal Technology columnists Geoffrey Fowler (@geoffreyfowler) and Joanna Stern (@JoannaStern) are at Apple's Cupertino, Calif., headquarters to share their thoughts and first impressions. Follow the live blog here.
Document WCWSJB0020141016eaag0038p
Asia Naphtha/Gasoline-Naphtha stays weak; gasoline spirals up
669 words
16 October 2014
08:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SINGAPORE, Oct 16 (Reuters) - Asia's front-month first-half December naphtha crack fell 14
percent to $64.35 a tonne on Thursday weighed down by stock piles. 
    Spot prices of cargoes going into North Asia sold at steep discounts while naphtha streaming
out of the India was sold at levels not seen in more than five years despite demand from
petrochemical makers. 
    Japan's Mitsui Chemicals joined others including South Korea's Lotte Chemical, S-Oil Corp,
Samsung Total and Taiwan's Formosa to purchase second-half November cargoes this week. It paid
discounts of $12 to $13 per tonne to Japan quotes on a cost-and-freight (C&F) basis. 
    JG Summit of the Philippines was also looking to buy a November cargo. 
    "Demand is still there but supplies have increased," said a trader, adding that cargoes
coming to Asia from Europe and the Mediterranean have outpaced demand. 
    India's Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) on the other hand sold a naphtha
cargo to Mercuria for Nov. 22-24 loading from New Mangalore at about $1 a tonne above Middle
East quotes on a free-on-board (FOB) basis. 
    A few months back, MRPL was still selling some of its April, May and June spot cargoes at
premiums in the $40s a tonne level, Reuters data showed. 
    
    OTHER TENDERS: Kuwait Petroleum Corp (KPC) sold two naphtha cargoes for November loading
with traders saying that the cargoes could have been bought by Shell and Trafigura. 
    But this could not be confirmed as the parties do not comment on their deals. 
    GASOLINE CRACK AT A WEEK'S HIGH
    The Asian gasoline crack rose to reach a week's high of $11.18 a barrel on firm Indonesian
demand as Asia's top importer has yet to restart some of its refinery units following planned
maintenance which started in September. 
    Pertamina has started maintenance at some of the units in its Cilacap and Balikpapan
refineries last month. 
    The Singapore onshore stocks also pointed to a drawdown as  weekly inventories fell 7.3
percent to reach a two-week low of 11.229 million barrels in the week to Oct. 15, official data
showed. 
    
    SINGAPORE CASH DEALS: One naphtha deal and one on gasoline. 
    Shell sold a 92-octane gasoline cargo for Nov. 5-9 loading at $94.20 a barrel. 
    Shell also sold a naphtha cargo for second-half December delivery to Socar at $691 a tonne. 
 LIGHT DISTILLATES                                                                           
 CASH ($/T)                        ASIA CLOSE        Change   % Change  Prev    RIC
                                                                        Close   
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M1                    687.00   -18.50     -2.62  705.50  <NAF-1H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M2                    694.75   -17.75     -2.49  712.50  <NAF-2H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha Diff                             -7.75    -0.75     10.71   -7.00  <NAF-TYO-DIF>
 Naphtha Netback FOB Sing                     74.20    -2.06     -2.70   76.26  <NAF-SIN>
 Naphtha Diff FOB Sing                        -0.55     0.34    -38.20   -0.89  <NAF-SIN-DIF>
 Naphtha-Brent  Crack                         64.35   -10.55    -14.09   74.90  <NAF-SIN-CRK>
 Gasoline 97                                  98.20     0.35      0.36   97.85  <GL97-SIN>
 Gasoline 95                                  97.31     0.31      0.32   97.00  <GL95-SIN>
 Gasoline 92                                  94.20     0.20      0.21   94.00  <GL92-SIN>
 Gasoline crack                               11.18     1.26     12.70    9.92  <GL92-SIN-CRK
                                                                                >
                                                                                             
 For a list of derivatives prices, including margins, please double                          
 click the RICs below.                                                          
 Brent M1                                                                                    
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1                                                                        
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1/M2                                                                     
 Naphtha CFR Japan M2                                                                        
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M1                                                               
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M2                                                               
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1                                                                         
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1/M2                                                                      
 Naphtha FOB Sing M2                                                                         
 Naphtha Cracks M1                                                                           
 East-West Naphtha M1                                                                        
 East-West Naphtha M2                                                                        
 NWE Naphtha M1                                                                              
 NWE Naphtha M1/M2                                                                           
 NWE Naphtha M2                                                                              
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M1                                                                  
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M2                                                                  
 *Sing refers to Singapore                                                                   
 
    
 (Reporting by Seng Li Peng; editing by Jason Neely)
Released: 2014-10-16T14:24:09.000Z
Document LBA0000020141016eaag00eny
Dirty Tanker Fixtures - Oct 16
324 words
16 October 2014
07:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
BANGALORE, Oct 16(Reuters) - Dirty Tankers Fixtures (Bookings):
 Vessel                    KT     Date    Load/Dest           Rate           Charterer
                                                                             
 MIDEAST GULF/BLACK SEA                                                      
 BRIGHTOIL GRAVITY         270    29/10   MEG/WCI             RNR            RELIANCE
 DESH VISHAL               270    01/11   MEG/WCI             RNR            RELIANCE
 ALFA GLORY                270    01/11   MEG/SIKKA           RNR            RELIANCE
 MARAN CANOPUS             270    29/10   MEG/SPORE           W45            CHEVRON
 DYNACOM TBN               130    30/10   MEG/DAESAN          COA            SAMSUNG T
 EUROHOPE                  140    31/10   MEG/UKCM            W40            PETRACO
 OLYMPIA I                 80     26/10   MEG/NZ              W95            SHELL-RPLC
 C. J. Z. GUANG            265    28/10   MAF/CHINA           COA            UNIPEC
 SCI TBN  FO               80     25/10   FUJA/JEDDAH         $750'          ATC
 TH SONATA FO              80     21/10   KUWAIT/EAST         W82.5 NH       VITOL
                                                                             
 WEST AFRICA                                                                 
 NANTUCKET                 130    30/10   WAFR/UKCM           W85            EXXON
 LEONID LOZA               130    30/10   WAFR/ABIDJAN        $850'          SAHARA
 MARE PICENUM              130    01/11   WAFR/BRAZIL         RNR            PETROBRAS
 GODAVARI SPIRIT           130    04/11   WAFR/UKCM           W80            PETROINEOS
 MARAN CASSIOPEIA          130    24/10   ALGERIA/UKC         W87.5          VALERO
 EAGLE BALTIMORA FO        80     27/10   ALGERIA/TA          RNR            VALERO
 BONITA                    70     20/10   PAJARITOS/UKCM      W82.5          VITOL
                                                                             
 WEST HEMISPHERE                                                             
 DELTA KANARIS FO          135    24/10   KERCH/FEST          $3.6M          SOLAL-FLD
 NELL JACOB  FO            130    28/10   UST LUGA/USG        W51.5          CLEARLAKE
 RICH DUCHESS II FO        80     22/10   GREECE/RSEA         $1.2M          ATC
 MINERVA CLARA             70     20/10   CBS/SPAIN           RNR            REPSOL
 AET TBN                   70     25/10   P. MIRANDA/USAC     W125           EXXON
                                                                             
 UK CONTINENT                                                                
 NORDIC SPRINTER FO        130    22/10   BALTIC/SPORE        $3.9M HT C/A   KOCH
 SEAFAITH II               100    26/10   HONNINGSVAG/UKC     W75            LITASCO
 TH SERENADE               80     20/10   NSEA/UKC            W100           TOTAL-FLD
                                                                             
 MED BLACK SEA                                                               
 MINERVA ZOE               80     23/10   LIBYA/MED           W105           PETRACO-FLD
 
    
    
Please Note :    
    
DNR : Date Not Reported    
      
Dirty tankers reports on, weekly clean tankers report      
For general shipping stories, For Tanker Rates double click <0#FRT->
Released: 2014-10-16T13:18:31.000Z
Document LBA0000020141016eaag00di5
 UPDATE 1-Taiwan's TSMC notches record profit in pre-holiday boom
Reuters, 01:00, 16 October 2014, 323 words, Michael Gold, (English)
TAIPEI, Oct 16 (Reuters) - Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd (TSMC), the world's largest contract chip manufacturer, rode heavy demand from smartphone clients to a record net profit in the third quarter, handily beating market ...
Document WCLBA00020141016eaag001xn
WSJ.D Technology: Pricey Google Devices Target Apple Buyers --- Bigger Nexus Smartphone, Tablet, TV Set-Top Box Arriving Next Month
By Alistair Barr and Rolfe Winkler   
670 words
16 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Google Inc. unveiled three Nexus-branded devices on Wednesday, signaling plans to compete with Apple Inc. for high-end consumers.
Google's new Nexus 6 smartphone, Nexus 9 tablet and Nexus Player set-top box are priced slightly below, or in line with, competing devices from Apple. In the past, Google has priced new models significantly below Apple products.That is a departure for Google, which in the past has priced new models significantly below Apple products.
Google also said it would introduce a new version of its Android operating system, dubbed Android L, for Lollipop, next month.
Unlike Apple, Google licenses its operating system to other phone makers. With the new releases, Google aims to compete more with Apple at the premium end of the mobile-device market and help partners churn out cheap handsets for developing markets.
"We deeply respect what Apple is doing, but we take a very different approach," said Sundar Pichai, who runs Google's Android, Chrome and Apps businesses. "With Android L, we wanted to show the entire spectrum."
Android powered 85% of smartphones shipped globally in the second quarter, according to Strategy Analytics. But in developed markets, such as the U.S., Apple devices remain popular with more affluent customers. That gives Apple an advantage because its users spend more on applications, encouraging developers to work on its platform first.
Google's three new devices can be preordered online later this week. The phone will be sold in 27 countries and will be in stores in November.
At 5.9 inches diagonally, the Nexus 6 is larger than Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus, which measures 5.5 inches. It will sell for $649, compared with $749 for the iPhone 6 Plus. Last year, Google introduced the Nexus 5 at $349.
Mr. Pichai said the goal of Nexus products isn't to sell lots of devices, but to provide a "road map" to help other Android device makers, such as Samsung Electronics Co., develop similar products.
The Nexus 6 will be available through the four major U.S. wireless carriers and sold in their stores, with two-year contracts and monthly installment plans that reduce the upfront cost of the device, Mr. Pichai said. Verizon Communications Inc. didn't carry the two most recent Nexus phones.
The Nexus 6 smartphone is made by Motorola Mobility, the handset manufacturer that Google is selling to China's Lenovo Group.
The Nexus 9 tablet, made by HTC Corp., features an 8.9-inch screen and starts at $399. An optional keyboard cover costs $129. It will be available in 30 countries and in stores next month. Google hopes the Nexus 9 can substitute for laptops in some work situations. Microsoft Corp. has tried that strategy with its Surface tablet, but it has failed to catch on with lots of consumers.Mr. Pichai said many people already use Android tablets, which should help get the Nexus 9 adopted in the office and on business trips.
The Nexus 9's $399 starting price is also close to what Apple charges for its iPads. The 9.7-inch tablets from Apple start at $399 and the latest iPad Air tablet starts $499. Apple is expected to unveil new iPads Thursday.
The Nexus Player is a small set-top box shaped like a hockey puck that connects to TVs and uses Wi-Fi to stream movies and TV shows. It doubles as a gaming console, letting users play Android games on a larger screen. Asustek Computer Inc. made the gadget.
The set-top box costs $99 and will be sold in the U.S. and Canada through Google's Play store in early November. That matches Apple's $99 set-top box, Apple TV. The Nexus Player has an optional game controller that costs $39.99.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141016eaag00030
 Does the Phablet Pioneer Still Lead the Way?
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 15 October 2014, 1013 words, (English)
Summary: WSJ's Hank Weisbecker talks to Personal Technology Columnist Joanna Stern about how the Samsung Galaxy Note 4 compares to the iPhone 6 Plus.
Document MMSAJZ0020141015eaaf000jh
BREAKINGVIEWS-Qualcomm signals $2.5 bln belief in Bluetooth
594 words
15 October 2014
09:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.  
(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
By Dominic Elliott
LONDON, Oct 15 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Qualcomm's 1.6 billion pound ($2.5 billion) deal to buy Britain's CSR sends a positive signal to rivals on Bluetooth. The U.S. chipmaker's $120 billion market cap means the purchase isn't a stretch - but it comes at a high price and an odd time.
Qualcomm's 900 pence-a-share offer represents a toppy 57 percent premium to where CSR shares were trading in late August before another suitor, Qualcomm's smaller rival Microchip Technology, first emerged. That desire to see off a competitor presumably helps explain the big sweetener.
The bid also looks rich in multiple terms. The price is 27 times 2015 forecast earnings, based on Starmine data which weights analysts' estimates based on their track record. Rivals trade on a maximum of 20 times forward 12-month earnings - although trading multiples do not include the control premium paid in a takeover.
Nor is there probably much scope for synergies, since Qualcomm focuses on kit used in smartphones and other Wi-Fi devices. CSR, by contrast, sold its handset business to Samsung in 2012.
Moreover, this comes just five days after Microchip warned the industry was facing a cyclical correction. Solid quarterly numbers from sector heavyweight Intel, on Oct. 14, were less gloomy. But Microchip has proved a good bellwether before.
For Qualcomm, though, this is a long-term bet on the rise of the "Internet of Things." CSR's specialty is Bluetooth, the short-range radio technology that connects devices like watches and stereos to internet-linked computers and smartphones.
As demand growth for smartphones slows, Qualcomm hopes this will be offset by consumers buying networked appliances. Industry analysts Gartner reckon the typical family home in the rich world will contain more than 500 internet-enabled consumer products within eight years.
If so, this could look smart. But exponential growth is easy to predict. It doesn't always arrive as planned. And even if it does, it doesn't always deliver outsized profits for the suppliers. 
              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              
- U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm agreed on Oct. 15 to buy Britain's CSR for 1.56 billion pounds ($2.5 billion), to grow in markets including automotive and audio products.
- Qualcomm's bid was made hours before a so-called "put up or shut up" deadline triggered by rival bid interest from Microchip Technology, which approached CSR in August.
- Qualcomm said it would pay 900 pence a share in cash for CSR, a 57 percent premium to the closing price on Aug. 26, the day before the offer period started. By 1335 BST on Oct. 15, CSR shares had risen 30 percent to 858 pence.
- Qualcomm Chief Executive Steven Mollenkopf said CSR's Bluetooth expertise would help his company sell microchips for portable audio, automotive and wearable devices. "Combining CSR's highly advanced offering of connectivity technologies... will unlock new opportunities for growth," he said in a statement.
- CSR statement http://bit.ly/1u4SKi7  statement
- Qualcomm statement http://bit.ly/1yDoy4E  statement
- Reuters: Qualcomm trumps Microchip with $2.5 billion deal for Britain's CSR trumps Microchip with $2.5 billion deal for Britain's
RELATED COLUMNS
Infine-off
Don't pass go
Toq, not revenue
- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on
(Editing by Quentin Webb and Sarah Bailey)
(On Twitterhttps://twitter.com/DominicElliott ) 
Released: 2014-10-15T15:31:40.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf00eqp
 Startup Builds Business Software for Google Glass, Smartwatches
CIO Report, 17:03, 15 October 2014, 731 words, By Clint Boulton, (English)
Wearable computers are set to become more popular in some workplaces as recent stories on Google Glass usage in medical and?industrial settings?show. FinancialForce.com, a startup that makes and runs billing, human resource and other ...
Document WCCIOR0020141015eaaf000b5
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: Beyond Volatility
MoneyBeat, 15 October 2014, 1022 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141015eaaf000ul
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: Beyond Volatility
WSJ Blogs, 17:16, 15 October 2014, 987 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 down 0.8% at 1862.49. DJIA down 1.1% at 16141.74. Nasdaq Comp down 0.3% at 4215.32. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.091%. Nymex crude oil down 0.1% at $81.78. Gold up ...
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf0076d
Tech
Lenovo to Establish New Mobile Phone Company in China; Smartphone Company With Different Brand Name Is Part of Efforts to Fend Off Competition in China
By Juro Osawa 
317 words
15 October 2014
05:48
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Personal-computer and smartphone maker Lenovo Group Ltd. said it would create a new company in China next year that focuses on selling mobile phones online.
The new smartphone company, which will have a different brand name, is part of Lenovo¡¦s efforts to fend off fierce competition in China from Xiaomi Inc., a local smartphone startup that sells its handsets online while cultivating its fan base through its own software, services and entertainment offerings. Xiaomi is also known for being marketing savvy, engaging with consumers through online forums and social networks.
Lenovo said in a statement Wednesday that it will continue to sell Lenovo-branded phones in China through local carriers and retailers.
The new smartphone company, which will start its operation April 1, 2015, won't only sell devices online but will also offer applications and focus on consumer engagement, Lenovo said.
Lenovo, which last year overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. as the world¡¦s largest PC maker, has been quickly expanding its smartphone business for the past year. In the second quarter, Lenovo was the world¡¦s fourth-largest smartphone maker by shipments behind Samsung, Apple and Huawei Technologies Co., according to IDC.
Lenovo and Xiaomi are two of the biggest smartphone makers in China, both selling more phones in the market than Samsung Electronics Co. or Apple Inc.
In recent quarters, Lenovo and Xiaomi have been competing intensely against each other for the number-one position by shipments.
Lenovo¡¦s plans to set up a new mobile phone business comes as the company is in the process of completing a $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility in the U.S.
But Lenovo said that the new smartphone company will be a China-focused company.
Document WSJO000020141015eaaf003pf
 5 Things To Read Today: U.S. Stocks Sink, Texas Ebola Patient Flew to Ohio, And More
WSJ Blogs, 14:59, 15 October 2014, 657 words, (English)
#1: Market Turmoil as Dow Sinks Amid Flight to Safety
U.S. stocks tumbled in wild trading Wednesday, briefly sending the Dow down more than 400 points as a rout in European shares spread and nervous investors flocked to safe-haven government ...
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf006k5
BREAKINGVIEWS-Twitter, Tesla deserve salute for patent war truce
560 words
15 October 2014
13:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
By Reynolds Holding
NEW YORK, Oct 15 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Twitter and Tesla deserve a crisp salute for helping to cool the patent wars. Recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions clearly contributed to a 40 percent drop in the number of infringement suits. But the microblogging site and Elon Musk's electric carmaker eased pressures to sue with efforts to share technology - and goose future demand.
Some 330 patent complaints landed in federal courts in September, compared with around 550 a year earlier, according to litigation analysis firm Lex Machina. The numbers have dropped steadily since reaching an April high.
A big reason is probably a Supreme Court decision in June that said merely running abstract ideas through a computer doesn't make them patentable. Since then, lower courts have declared patents invalid in at least a dozen cases. The ruling has also cast doubt on protections for certain types of software.
Two other top-court cases discouraged weak infringement lawsuits by giving their targets more leeway to recoup legal fees. The Patent and Trademark Office's appeal board has been using new powers to review and nullify dodgy patents that have already been granted.
More companies may be realizing, though, that costly enforcement actions aren't worth it. Twitter announced two years ago that it would allow engineers to veto litigation involving intellectual property they developed. Tesla opened up its technology to other users in June, just before the Supreme Court decision.
The upside for Twitter was the possibility of attracting more customers and top-notch engineers. Its lack of a big patent arsenal, of course, meant the risk was low. Musk's company reckons sharing IP will speed development of batteries, charging stations and other technology integral to the industry's success - and, therefore, its own.
History suggests they're on to something. The early technology behind personal computers, wireless communications and even textile manufacturing was left open for rivals to copy and develop. The tactic encouraged innovation and the creation of complementary products that helped expand demand.
Other companies may be coming around. Samsung is to share patents with Google over the next decade and has ended its legal battles with Apple outside the United States. After years of vicious fighting, the lure of a peace dividend can be tough to resist. 
              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              
- The number of U.S. patent lawsuits filed in September dropped 40 percent from the total a year before, from 549 to 329, according to litigation analysis firm Lex Machina. Filings in each of the past five months have also decreased significantly since reaching a high of 675 in April, the company reported.
- The U.S. Supreme Court on June 19 decided that abstract ideas cannot be patented merely because they are implemented through a computer. The court's nine justices ruled unanimously in favor of CLS Bank International, which had challenged Australian derivatives market operator Alice Corp's patents for a computer system that keeps track of financial transactions.
- Lex Machina report: http://bit.ly/1o1vepS
RELATED COLUMN
Fancy free
- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (On Twitterhttps://twitter.com/holdingren. Editing by Antony Currie and Martin Langfield) 
Released: 2014-10-15T19:21:57.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf00jzi
 Google¡¦s Nexus Line: Nexus 6 Phablet, Nexus 9 Tablet and Nexus Player
WSJ Blogs, 11:01, 15 October 2014, 856 words, By WSJ Staff, (English)
A day ahead of Apple's expected introduction of next-gen iPads and iMacs, Google is announcing three new Nexus devices: a Nexus 6 smartphone, a Nexus 9 tablet and the Nexus Player, a set-top box for streaming media and games. The new trio ...
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf004ph
 Google¡¦s Sundar Pichai Welcomes Antitrust Scrutiny on Android
WSJ Blogs, 11:02, 15 October 2014, 781 words, By Rolfe Winkler and Alistair Barr, (English)
Google?Senior Vice President Sundar Pichai said he welcomes scrutiny by the European Commission, which is investigating concerns that Google is promoting its own services like maps and search on its Android mobile-operating system while ...
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf004pl
Business
GameStop¡¦s Holiday Pitch: More Layaway, Generous Financing; Electronics Retailer to Offer Expanded Layaway Offerings, Including Game Consoles
By Michael Calia 
401 words
15 October 2014
06:35
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GameStop Corp. on Wednesday continued its push for holiday shoppers by unveiling expanded layaway offerings, including next-generation videogame consoles and tablets, along with more generous financing terms for holders of its store credit cards.
The latest moves come as the videogame and electronics retailer has been posting strong results buoyed by demand for new consoles from Sony, Microsoft Corp. and Nintendo.
For the holidays, the company is preparing to see high demand for new games for the PlayStation 4, the Xbox One and the Wii U, as well as from customers who are looking to trade in their old smartphones for cash to help buy the new Apple Inc. iPhone 6. GameStop refurbishes and sells used iPhones and other pre-owned electronics as it looks to become a bigger player in an industry that the company expects will grow by 20% to 25% annually over the next five years.
Last month, to prepare for the rush, GameStop said it would hire 25,000 seasonal workers this year, a 47% jump from last year.
In another change from last year, when the Microsoft and Sony consoles debuted, the retailer has made the PlayStation 4 available for layaway during the upcoming holiday season. It had previously made the console available for layaway in April.
The Xbox One, which was available for layaway in February, wasn¡¦t on the list of products the company announced Wednesday. However, a company representative confirmed that the device will become available for layaway in early November.
Two Samsung Galaxy 4 tablets will be available under the program, too, the company said, as will a variety of headsets and accessories that hadn¡¦t been available before. The company added that it will make more products available as the season progresses and items become available.
GameStop also said it is also offering a limited-time financing offer for holders of its PowerUP Rewards Pro credit card. Under the incentive, customers will be eligible to pay nothing in interest on purchases of $500 or more for six months, GameStop said.
Retailers have reinvigorated layaway programs in recent years as cost-conscious consumers trim back credit-card spending amid a slow economic recovery. Sears Holdings Corp.¡¦s Kmart chain recently triggered the beginning of its layaway season, as well. 
Document WSJO000020141015eaaf0043b
 Samsung Galaxy Note 4 Review
Wall Street Journal Video, 15 October 2014, 545 words, (English)
Summary: Can the phablet leader stay ahead with the iPhone 6 Plus on its heels? WSJ's Joanna Stern reviews Samsung's Galaxy Note 4. Photo/Video: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal
Document MMSAJB0020141015eaaf0008d
 Apple looks to rev up fading tablet growth
Reuters India, 04:31, 15 October 2014, 521 words, Bill Rigby, (English)
SEATTLE (Reuters) - Apple Inc is expected to unveil thinner and more powerful iPads on Thursday ahead of the holiday season but may struggle to arouse passion for tablets among consumers already over-supplied with hand-held, touch-screen ...
Document WC45421020141015eaaf0001x
 Deals of the Day: Second Thoughts for AbbVie, Qualcomm Pounces
MoneyBeat, 15 October 2014, 793 words, Erik Holm, (English)
Deals of the Day is your one-stop-shop for the morning¡¦s biggest news from the finance beat, including M&A, IPOs, banks, hedge funds and private equity.?Here¡¦s what¡¦s happening today: Mergers & Acquisitions Second thoughts. ...
Document BC08551020141015eaaf000gr
Asia Naphtha/Gasoline-Naphtha crack dips despite emerging demand
709 words
15 October 2014
07:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SINGAPORE, Oct 15 (Reuters) - The Asian naphtha crack
slipped $1.75 to $74.90 a tonne on Wednesday, 24 percent lower
than a year ago, as the supply overhang persisted despite demand
emerging this week.
    South Korea's Lotte Chemical joined a string of buyers to
buy second-half November naphtha.  
    Some traders said the petrochemical maker paid a discount of
$14 a tonne to Japan quotes on a cost-and-freight (C&F) basis,
which marked a fresh low for 2014 in South Korea.
    "This is a desperate situation," said a North Asian trader
referring to the high supplies. 
    But some traders were not convinced that any trader would 
sell at such a deep discount, saying a discount of $11 would
have been more reasonable.  
    Lotte Chemical's purchase came a day after Asia's top
naphtha buyer Formosa bought slightly over 100,000 tonnes of
open-spec naphtha for second-half November delivery at a
discount of $14 a tonne. 
    Earlier in the week, there was a private deal done in Japan
but details were not known. 
    Samsung Total and S-Oil Corp has each bought naphtha for
second-half November delivery, with the latter paying $8 to $9 a
tonne below Japan quotes for up to 20,000 tonnes of heavy
full-range naphtha. 
    S-Oil on the other hand sold a total of 66,000 tonnes of
light naphtha to Japanese traders Marubeni and Petro-Diamond at
record low discounts of $19 to $20 a tonne to Japan quotes on a
free-on-board (FOB) basis. 
    
    OTHER NEWS: S-Oil will complete a 40,000-tonne naphtha
storage tank at Onsan by late November, helping it to buy more
to take advantage of low heavy full-range naphtha prices,
industry sources said on Wednesday. 
    
    NAPHTHA CASH DEALS: Itochu bought from Socar a first-half
December naphtha cargo at $709 a tonne. 
       
    GASOLINE CRACK FIRMS
    The Asian gasoline crack rose to a four-session high of
nearly $10 a barrel on vibrant trades in the Singapore cash
market.     
    Not only did the cash deals resume after a short absence but
the 200,000 barrels traded were the highest in about a month. 
    PTT sold three of the four 92-octane gasoline cargoes in the
cash market. 
    It sold two cargoes for Nov. 10-Nov. 14 loading, one to
Vitol at $93 a barrel and another to Phillips 66 at $93.50 a
barrel. It went on to sell to BP a Nov. 4-Nov. 8 cargo at $94.60
a barrel.
    Shell on the other hand sold a 92-octane gasoline cargo to
PetroChina for Nov. 4-Nov. 8 at $94.60 a barrel. 
    
 LIGHT DISTILLATES                                                                         
 CASH ($/T)                      ASIA CLOSE       Change  % Change  Prev    RIC
                                                                    Close   
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M1                 705.50  -35.50     -4.79  741.00  <NAF-1H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M2                 712.50  -35.50     -4.75  748.00  <NAF-2H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha Diff                          -7.00    0.00      0.00   -7.00  <NAF-TYO-DIF>
 Naphtha Netback FOB Sing                  76.26   -3.94     -4.91   80.20  <NAF-SIN>
 Naphtha Diff FOB Sing                     -0.89   -0.02      2.30   -0.87  <NAF-SIN-DIF>
 Naphtha-Brent  Crack                      74.90   -1.75     -2.28   76.65  <NAF-SIN-CRK>
 Gasoline 97                               97.85   -3.80     -3.74  101.65  <GL97-SIN>
 Gasoline 95                               97.00   -3.75     -3.72  100.75  <GL95-SIN>
 Gasoline 92                               94.00   -3.60     -3.69   97.60  <GL92-SIN>
 Gasoline crack                             9.92    0.90      9.98    9.02  <GL92-SIN-CRK>
                                                                                           
 For a list of derivatives prices, including margins, please                               
 double click the RICs below.                                               
 Brent M1                                                                                  
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1                                                                      
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1/M2                                                                   
 Naphtha CFR Japan M2                                                                      
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M1                                                             
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M2                                                             
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1                                                                       
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1/M2                                                                    
 Naphtha FOB Sing M2                                                                       
 Naphtha Cracks M1                                                                         
 East-West Naphtha M1                                                                      
 East-West Naphtha M2                                                                      
 NWE Naphtha M1                                                                            
 NWE Naphtha M1/M2                                                                         
 NWE Naphtha M2                                                                            
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M1                                                                
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M2                                                                
 *Sing refers to Singapore                                                                 
        
 (Reporting by Seng Li Peng; editing by David Evans)
Released: 2014-10-15T13:16:01.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf00bt2
 Deals of the Day: Second Thoughts for AbbVie, Qualcomm Pounces
WSJ Blogs, 08:15, 15 October 2014, 762 words, By Erik Holm, (English)
Deals of the Day is your one-stop-shop for the morning¡¦s biggest news from the finance beat, including M&A, IPOs, banks, hedge funds and private equity.?Here¡¦s what¡¦s happening today:
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf003bh
 Macro Horizons: Markets Still Jittery After Weak China Price Data, New Ebola Case
WSJ Blogs, 06:28, 15 October 2014, 1267 words, By Michael J. Casey and Alen Mattich, (English)
Macro Horizons covers the main macroeconomic and policy news events affecting foreign-exchange, fixed income and equity markets around the world, as selected by editors in New York, London and Hong Kong.
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf002bd
 Macro Horizons: Markets Still Jittery After Weak China Data, New Ebola Case
MoneyBeat, 15 October 2014, 1353 words, Michael J. Casey and Alen Mattich, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption alignright caption-alignright " style="width: 359px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> </dl> Macro Horizons covers the main macroeconomic and policy news events affecting foreign-exchange, fixed ...
Document BC08551020141015eaaf000b7
UPDATE 3-ASML says on track to hit year's sales target
689 words
15 October 2014
04:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Chip tool maker maintains full-year guidance
* Timing of demand for next-generation systems unclear
* Fourth quarter guidance should offset weaker third quarter (Adds analyst comment, updates share price)
By Thomas Escritt
AMSTERDAM, Oct 15 (Reuters) - Dutch semiconductor equipment supplier ASML blamed delayed shipments as it brushed off weaker-than-expected quarterly sales on Wednesday, confirming its full-year target and forecasting a strong start to 2015.
Analysts have expressed concern over uncertain demand for next-generation systems, but investors were cheered by ASML's robust order book and a positive outlook from major customer Intel on Tuesday, lifting the stock in early trade.
Sales figures from ASML - which supplies chip lithography systems to all of the world's largest chip makers, including Intel, Samsung Electronics and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing - serve as a leading indicator of the investment plans for the industry as a whole.
"Looking ahead, we see a solid start to 2015," ASML Chief Executive Peter Wennink said, adding a "strong backlog" would mean higher sales of systems for making computer memory chips.
Sales of next-generation logic systems, however, depended on demand further down the chain: "The timing and volume depends on the business allocations by our customers' customers."
The company posted net sales of 1.32 billion euros ($1.67 billion) for the three months to end-September, slightly below the 1.4 billion it had forecast in the previous quarter and virtually flat on the same period last year.
The company said sales were just shy of forecasts and analyst expectations because of "a couple of system shipments shifting into Q4". It said that would not affect the full-year forecast for net sales of at least 5.6 billion euros, up from 5.25 billion in 2013.
"We believe the miss in the third quarter will be more than compensated for in the fourth quarter. We expect to see (2014 earnings per share) upgrades of 2 percent on the back of the results," said ING analyst Robin van den Broek, who has a "buy" rating on the stock.
"The order book ... shows strong momentum."
Uncertainty over the future still weighed on ASML shares, however, trading down 0.8 percent at 0900 GMT at 73.23 euros, having pared earlier gains.
"The third quarter was of course a bit disappointing, but with some systems being shifted into the fourth quarter that's not a major issue, with the reiteration of the full year guidance," said Rabobank analyst Philip Scholte.
NEXT GENERATION
ASML's third-quarter gross margin dipped by two percentage points on the previous quarter to 43.7 percent and the company predicted a fourth-quarter margin of 43 percent, down from 43.6 percent in the same quarter last year.
The company said average selling prices for its photolithography systems fell to 29.5 million euros in the third quarter from 40.1 million euros in the second quarter, as customers continued to upgrade existing systems rather than increase spending on new ones.
Half of the company's total sales were of older 28-nanometre scale products to Asian foundries, which act as contract manufacturers for chip designers with no production capacity of their own.
Customers were still looking to add capacity in the high end 14, 16 and 20-nanometre segments, but the timing remained unclear, Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Nickl said.
The company has been investing heavily in next-generation extreme ultra-violet (EUV) lithography systems, and two customers recently passed the crucial 500 chip wafers per day volume milestone using these devices.
Nickl said the company expected to ship six EUV systems in 2015.
On Tuesday Intel Corp, the world's largest chip maker, defied recent gloom among chip investors in giving an end-of-year forecast above expectations. It also said its supply chain was in good shape ahead of the holiday season as demand for personal computers recovered. (1 US dollar = 0.7907 euros) (Reporting By Thomas Escritt; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier, Greg Mahlich and Clara Ferreira Marques) 
Released: 2014-10-15T10:19:23.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf005zz
 Facebook¡¦s Zuckerberg, Sandberg ¡¥Lean In¡¦ on Samsung Visit
WSJ Blogs, 04:20, 15 October 2014, 470 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
What is Mark Zuckerberg doing in South Korea?
The young Facebook ?founder and some of his top lieutenants touched down here yesterday for a series of meetings at Samsung Electronics¡¦ offices in Seoul and Suwon.
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf001rx
UPDATE 1-Market Chatter-Corporate finance press digest
315 words
15 October 2014
00:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds Snapdeal)
Oct 15 (Reuters) - The following corporate finance-related stories were reported by media:
* Fogo de Ch?o, the Brazilian steakhouse restaurant chain known for its all-you-can-eat meat tableside service, has hired underwriters for a potential initial public offering (IPO), according to people familiar with the matter.
* Hewlett-Packard Co has ended merger talks with EMC Corp and may announce this development as soon as Wednesday, deciding to walk away after months of fruitless negotiations, people briefed on the matter told Reuters.
* GlaxoSmithKline is seeking binding bids by next month for a range of older drugs worth more than $3 billion, which it is likely to sell by geographical region, according to people with direct knowledge of the process.
* Indian low-cost carrier IndiGo is close to placing a large order worth billions of dollars for a variety of aircraft and could reach a decision as early as 2015, according to several industry sources.
* Cheil Industries Inc, widely seen as the de facto holding company of Samsung Group, is likely to offer around 1.5 trillion won ($1.41 billion) worth of shares in its upcoming initial public offering (IPO), a person with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.
* India-based cement manufacturer UltraTech Cement Ltd will bid for assets owned by French cement company Lafarge SA in southeastern Brazil, the Mint reported, citing two people familiar with the development. (http://bit.ly/1vtwqVf)
* Indian online retailer Snapdeal is close to raising $600 million to $650 million from existing investors, led by Japan's SoftBank Corp, to expand operations, three people involved in the fundraising said.
For the deals of the day click on
For the Morning News Call-EMEA newsletter click on ($1 = 1,066.30 Korean won) (Compiled by Rama Venkat Raman in Bangalore) 
Released: 2014-10-15T06:57:44.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf004lh
Ex-Google Executive Is Hired By Xiaomi
By R. Jai Krishna and Newley Purnell   
312 words
15 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
NPC
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Xiaomi Inc., the Chinese smartphone maker that has overtaken Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in the world's biggest smartphone market, has hired another former Google Inc. executive, this time to lead its products team in India.
Jai Mani, who joins as lead product manager, was strategy and analytics associate for Google Play and co-founded a startup, according to his LinkedIn profile, before relocating from San Francisco.
"You can think of it as the beginning of our R&D center development in India," Hugo Barra, vice president for global operations at Xiaomi, said.
"The first person we hired is someone who's going to be the glue between our users in India, product feedback that we receive, and the engineering team we have in Beijing as well as the engineering team that we are going to be building fairly soon in India," he said.
Mr. Barra, who also joined Xiaomi from Google, said he and Mr. Mani "worked very closely at Google."
The appointment comes as Xiaomi is expanding outside of China and ramping up its presence in India and Southeast Asia. The Chinese company wants to build products or applications that run on its cellphones aimed at a global audience from India, Mr. Barra told The Wall Street Journal earlier this year. Xiaomi, which means "little rice" in Chinese, has intensified competition in a smartphone market dominated by Apple and Samsung. Xiaomi has created buzz in China and India by selling high-end phones online directly to consumers for prices that are close to cost. The company offers services such as mobile applications and movies via its software and makes money by selling an array of accessories. Mr. Mani worked with Google from 2009 until 2013.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141015eaaf0002u
Market Chatter- Corporate finance press digest
279 words
14 October 2014
23:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 15 (Reuters) - The following corporate finance-related stories were reported by media:
* Fogo de Ch?o, the Brazilian steakhouse restaurant chain known for its all-you-can-eat meat tableside service, has hired underwriters for a potential initial public offering (IPO), according to people familiar with the matter.
* Hewlett-Packard Co has ended merger talks with EMC Corp and may announce this development as soon as Wednesday, deciding to walk away after months of fruitless negotiations, people briefed on the matter told Reuters.
* GlaxoSmithKline is seeking binding bids by next month for a range of older drugs worth more than $3 billion, which it is likely to sell by geographical region, according to people with direct knowledge of the process.
* Indian low-cost carrier IndiGo is close to placing a large order worth billions of dollars for a variety of aircraft and could reach a decision as early as 2015, according to several industry sources.
* Cheil Industries Inc, widely seen as the de facto holding company of Samsung Group, is likely to offer around 1.5 trillion won ($1.41 billion) worth of shares in its upcoming initial public offering (IPO), a person with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.
* India-based cement manufacturer UltraTech Cement Ltd will bid for assets owned by French cement company Lafarge SA in southeastern Brazil, the Mint reported, citing two people familiar with the development. (http://bit.ly/1vtwqVf)
For the deals of the day click on
For the Morning News Call-EMEA newsletter click on ($1 = 1,066.30 Korean won) (Compiled by Rama Venkat Raman in Bangalore) 
Released: 2014-10-15T05:14:15.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf003e9
Samsung's Cheil Industries submits plans for roughly $1.4 bln IPO -source
228 words
14 October 2014
22:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 15 (Reuters) - Cheil Industries Inc, widely seen as the de facto holding company of Samsung Group, is likely to offer around 1.5 trillion won ($1.41 billion) worth of shares in its upcoming initial public offering (IPO), a person with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.
Cheil may sell the shares at a price ranging from 45,000 won to 55,000 won each, according to a preliminary plan submitted by the company to South Korea's stock exchange, said the person, who declined to be identified as the listing process is so far private.
After a stock split approved by Cheil shareholders in August, such an offer range would give Cheil a market capitalization of 6 trillion to 7 trillion won.
Cheil is likely to offer around 20 to 25 percent of its total shares, including new issuance and shares currently held by existing shareholders, the Korea Economic Daily reported earlier on Wednesday without saying where it obtained the information.
Cheil, which changed its name from Samsung Everland Inc in July, is likely to list as early as December after announcing IPO plans earlier this year.
A Cheil spokesman declined comment.
(1 US dollar = 1,067.5600 Korean won) (Reporting by Joyce Lee) 
Released: 2014-10-15T04:30:03.000Z
Document LBA0000020141015eaaf002ml
 Intel Gains New Foothold in U.S. Smartphones
WSJ Blogs, 23:04, 14 October 2014, 444 words, By Don Clark, (English)
Intel hasn¡¦t been very successful at getting its chips into smartphones. Now a Taiwanese ally has given the processor powerhouse something to crow about.
Document WCWSJB0020141015eaaf000gq
UPDATE 2-Apple supplier Skyworks' profit jumps as RF chip demand rises
519 words
14 October 2014
11:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds details, analyst and executive comments, background; updates shares)
By Abhirup Roy
Oct 14 (Reuters) - Skyworks Solutions Inc, a supplier of radio frequency chips to companies such as Apple Inc , estimated fourth-quarter adjusted profit and revenue above its forecast, sending its shares up as much as 12.5 percent.
Skyworks, whose chips connect smartphones and tablets to a telecom network, has been benefiting from higher demand from handset makers, particularly Apple.
Apple sold 10 million of its latest iPhones in the first weekend after its new, larger phone models went on sale in 10 countries on Sept. 19. The new devices will be available in more than 115 countries by the end of the year.
"You have got a combination of good units and apparently good sell-through for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and ... you also have a content increase story there," Oppenheimer & Co analyst Rick Schafer told Reuters.
The market for RF chips is expanding as telecom operators upgrade to 4G networks from 3G. 4G-equipped smartphones require more RF chips than 3G-equipped ones.
"What we say for Skyworks is that they are in the early stages of what we call an RF boom cycle," Schafer said.
He said that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus contained 20-25 percent more Skyworks' components than did the iPhone 5S.
Skyworks, whose clients include Samsung Electronics , estimated an adjusted profit of $1.08 per share and revenue of $718 million for the quarter ended September - it had earlier forecast earnings of $1 per share and revenue of $680 million.
The company had reported an adjusted profit of 64 cents per share and revenue of $477 million, a year earlier.
Analysts on average had expected a fourth-quarter profit of $1.01 per share and revenue of $679.4 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Skyworks' upbeat estimates come at a time when investors are concerned about a broad-based downturn in the semiconductor industry due to lower demand for electronic devices.
A number of U.S. chipmakers have in recent weeks suggested demand for chips from various industries, including automobiles and network equipment, was falling across regions, particularly Asia and Europe.
Skyworks is also benefiting from the growth in Internet-connected devices - commonly called the "Internet of Things" - which allows machines on wired and wireless networks to interact.
"These multi-year technology trends are setting the stage for us to outperform the broader semiconductor industry in the December quarter and for the foreseeable future," Chief Executive David Aldrich said in a statement on Tuesday.
Skyworks is expected to report its fourth-quarter results on Nov. 6.
The company's shares were up 10.4 percent at $50.05 in noon trading on the Nasdaq. Shares of other RF chip suppliers to Apple such as RF Micro Devices Inc, NXP Semiconductors NV and Avago Technologies Ltd also rose. (Additional reporting by Sai Sachin R in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das and Kirti Pandey)
Released: 2014-10-17T16:28:31.000Z
Document LBA0000020141014eaae00fa1
BUZZ-IQE: Up after company's top brass increase stake
158 words
14 October 2014
05:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
** British semiconductor materials maker IQE's shares jump 10 pct after the company says CEO, CFO and COO increase stake.
** IQE said executive directors had purchased a total of 3.3 mln ordinary shares in IQE plc at 12.75 pence per share.
** Chief Executive Drew Nelson - IQE's fourth largest stakeholder - purchased 1.8 mln shares and exercised options to 4.8 mln shares, taking his shareholding to 5.36 pct.
** Nelson exercised options to 3.14 mln shares on Oct. 9, when his shareholding stood at 5.18 pct.
** IQE's CFO has a stake of 0.53 pct in the company, while its COO owns 0.65 pct, after purchasing shares and exercising options on Tuesday.
** IQE supplies core wafer technology to companies that in turn supply large customers such as Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd.
Released: 2014-10-17T10:24:41.000Z
Document LBA0000020141014eaae00ayh
 Intel gains a new ally in China's chip wars - Beijing
Reuters India, 21:45, 13 October 2014, 1030 words, Gerry Shih, (English)
BEIJING/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Intel's investment of up to $1.5 billion in two fast-growing Chinese mobile chipmakers has effectively aligned the U.S. giant with a third party - a Beijing government intent on producing a viable domestic ...
Document WC45421020141014eaae0001y
 Samsung Elec CEO hoses down chip war fears
Reuters India, 22:08, 13 October 2014, 276 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) does not expect a price war to break out in the semiconductor industry next year even though it is ramping up capacity, the chief executive of the world's biggest memory chip maker ...
Document WC45421020141014eaae00023
 Solvay wins contract to provide plastic for iPhone 6 - Bloomberg
Reuters India, 20:37, 13 October 2014, 270 words, (English)
REUTERS - Belgian chemicals company Solvay SA has won a contract to provide plastic for Apple Inc's latest smartphone iPhone 6 handsets, Bloomberg said on Monday.
Document WC45421020141014eaae00022
DIARY - Italy to November 30
2,542 words
14 October 2014
06:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
The inclusion of diary items does not necessarily mean that Reuters will file a story based on the event.
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 15
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Trade ministers' informal meeting chaired by Deputy Economic Development Minister Carlo Calenda; followed by news conference at 1345 GMT.
ISTAT releases Q2 GDP data (0800 GMT); Q2 deficit/GDP ratio data (0900 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases 'Quarterly Economic Bullettin'.
Rome, Cabinet expected to meet also on 'Stability Law'.
Rome, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano chairs meeting of Defence Superior Council (0830 GMT).
Rome, Enel CEO Francesco Starace (1200 GMT) and Europe's largest steel plant special administrator Piero Gnudi (1800 GMT) informally speak before Senate Industry Committee.
Rome, Chamber of Deputies Speaker Laura Boldrini meets Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang (0925 GMT).
Milan, start of two-day "Asia-Europe Business Forum"; ends on Oct. 16. Expected attendees include Salini Impregilo Chairman Gianfelice Rocca, employers' association Confindustria President Giorgio Squinzi, Eni President Emma Marcegaglia, Intesa Sanpaolo CEO Carlo Messina, Lukoil Vice President Thomas Mueller, Samsung Electronics Europe President Sang Woo Kim (1200 GMT).
Milan, first "Italy-China Finance Summit" with Bank of China board President Tian Guoli (1330 GMT).
Conference on "Digital and Italy" with Poste Italiane CEO Francesco Caio, UniCredit Deputy General Manager Paolo Fiorentino, Telecom Italia Chairman Giuseppe Recchi (1600 GMT).
Milan, ABI-banking association holds Executive Committee meeting (0800 GMT).
Milan, UniCredit Deputy Director General Paolo Fiorentino attends news conference to present agreement between UniCredit and Epson Meteo (1300 GMT).
THURSDAY OCTOBER 16
ISTAT releases August foreign trade data (0800 GMT).
Reuters releases Q3 Italian economy poll (1320 GMT).
Milan, Italian European Presidency, first of two-day '10th ASEM Summit of Heads of State and Government' on "Responsible Partnership for Sustainable Growth and Security" chaired by Prime Minister Matteo Renzi; ends on Oct 17.
Milan, "Asia-Europe Business Forum" ends. Expected attendees include Expo 2015 President Diana Bracco, Finmeccanica CEO Mauro Moretti, Foreign Affairs Minister Federica Mogherini, employers' association Confindustria Giorgio Squinzi, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Eni President Emma Marcegaglia (0715 GMT).
Milan, "Italy-China Innovation Forum", with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang, Lombardy Region Governor Roberto Maroni, Bank of China board President Tian Guoli, H3G CEO Vincenzo Novari (0655 GMT).
Milan, StrategyCouncil holds conference on innovation, entrepreneurship, employment; expected attendees include Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Economic Development Minister Federica Guidi, Poste Italiane CEO Francesco Caio, Italian luxury goods companies association Altagamma President Andrea Illy, UBI Banca CEO Victor Massiah, Prada Chairman Carlo Mazzi, Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena Chairman Alessandro Profumo, Telecom Italia Chairman Giuseppe Recchi, SKY Italian unit CEO Andrea Zappia (0700 GMT).
BB Biotech holds board meeting on Q3 results.
Industrial Stars of Italy holds annual general meeting (0800 GMT).
UniCredit CRDI.MI> holds board meeting on bids for its bad laons unit UniCredit Credit Management Bank (UCCMB).
FRIDAY OCTOBER 17
Milan, Italian European Presidency, '10th ASEM Summit of Heads of State and Government' on "Responsible Partnership for Sustainable Growth and Security" ends.
Bologna, think-tank Prometeia presents Italian and global economic forecasts; Italy's Head of Debt Management Office Maria Cannata gives speech (1045 GMT).
Milan, new conference to present art exhibition on "Van Gogh. The man and the earth" with Unipol Chairman Pierluigi Stefanini (1000 GMT).
Beni Stabili capital increase ends (started on Sept. 29).
IGD capital increase ends (started on Sept. 29).
SATURDAY OCTOBER 18
Bologna, Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco holds news conference (0930 GMT).
Danieli & C. presents FY results.
MONDAY OCTOBER 20
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Sport ministers' informal meeting starts; ends on Oct. 21.
ISTAT releases August industry orders and sales (0800 GMT).
Milan, ISPI-Italian Institute for Studies on International Politics holds conference on "Is Japan (really) back? Japanese Politics, Economy and Security to the Test", with Fincantieri Chairman Vincenzo Petrone (1230 GMT).
TUESDAY OCTOBER 21
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Sport ministers' informal meeting ends.
AIFI-Italian Institutional investors in risk capital association President Innocenzo Cipolletta presents H1 results (1000 GMT).
Sogefi holds board meeting on Q3 results.
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 22
DiaSorin holds news conference to present new product (0900 GMT).
Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso holds board meeting on Q3 results.
THURSDAY OCTOBER 23
ISTAT releases preliminary September non-UE trada flash data (0800 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of CTZ and BTPei bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 28.
Amplifon holds board meeting on Q3 results.
Fedrigoni, paper maker company IPO ends.
Finmeccanica expected to hold board meeting.
FRIDAY OCTOBER 24
Fitch is due to revise its ratings on Italy.
ISTAT releases August retail sales data (0800 GMT); September wage inflation data (0900 GMT); October consumer confidence data (1000 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 29.
International banking conference on "Structural Changes in the Banking Sector", Intesa Sanpaolo CFO Stefano Del Punta and ECB board member Peter Praet deliver opening addresses (0800 GMT).
Juventus Football Club holds annual general meeting (0830 GMT).
Board meeting on Q3 results: Autostrade Meridionali , Piaggio.
SATURDAY OCTOBER 25
Italy, trade union CGIL expected to call national demonstration against the economic policy of the government.
SUNDAY OCTOBER 26
ITALY, EUROPE- Back to solar time by one hour, new time GMT +1.
MONDAY OCTOBER 27
Treasury announces sale of BTP and CCTeu bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Oct. 30.
Rome, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi meets trade unions on labour reform.
Milan, round-table discussion on "Relaunching Italian competitiveness" with Assicurazioni Generali Chairman Gabriele Galateri di Genola, UniCredit CEO Federico Ghizzoni, state broadcaster RAI President Anna Maria Tarantola (1600 GMT).
A.S. Roma holds annual and extraordinary shareholders' meeting (1400 GMT).
Mediobanca holds board meeting on Q1 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: CIR (0900 GMT), Cofide (1430 GMT).
TUESDAY OCTOBER 28
ISTAT releases October business confidence data (0900 GMT).
Assogestioni expected to release September fund flows data.
Treasury sells CTZ and BTPei bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Rome, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano to testify in mafia case (1200 GMT).
Milan, start of two-day annual conference on insurance organised by Il Sole 24 Ore, with insurers' association ANIA President Aldo Minucci, Unipol CEO Carlo Cimbri, Cattolica Assicurazioni CEO Giovan Battista Mazzucchelli (1230 GMT).
Milan, raw material SIM Wings Partners holds presentation news conference (0930 GMT).
Mediobanca holds conference call on Q1 results (0730 GMT) and annual general meeting (1000 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Banca Ifis, Recordati , Saipem followed by conference call.
Annual general meetings: Danieli & C. (1300 GMT), Digital Bros, S.S. Lazio (1400 GMT).
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 29
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Milan, end of two-day annual conference on insurance organised by Il Sole 24 Ore, with Unipol Director General Franco Ellena (0730 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Carraro (1430 GMT), ENI (press release on Oct. 30), FCA-Fiat followed by conference call, Indesit followed by conference call, Luxottica followed by conference call.
STMicrolectronics releases Q3 results before European bourses open; followed by conference call (0830 GMT).
THURSDAY OCTOBER 30
Rome, Italian European Presidency, Tourism ministers' informal meeting.
Reuters expected to release September asset allocation poll (1200 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP and CCTeu bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
ENI releases Q3 results (before Bourse opening); followed by conference call (afternoon).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Ansaldo STS, CNH Industrial followed by conference call, Reno De Medici , Snam (press release on Oct. 31), Sorin .
FRIDAY OCTOBER 31
ISTAT releases monthly update on GDP growth; September unemployment data (0900 GMT); October flash CPI and HICP data (1000 GMT); September producer prices (1100 GMT).
Bourse After Hours market closed.
Basic Net holds board meeting on Q3 results.
Fintel Energia Group capital increase ends.
Snam releases Q3 results (before Bourse opening); followed by conference call (afternoon).
TerniEnergia meets analysts on acquisition of Lucos Alternative Energies and Free Energia.
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 1
Effective today new composition of European Commission appointed by President Jean-Claude Juncker on Sept. 10 and later approved by the European Parliament.
MONDAY NOVEMBER 3
Markit/ADACI releases October PMI manufacturing (0845 GMT).
ISTAT releases 2014-2016 Italian economy perspectives data (0900 GMT).
Transport Ministry releases October car sales (1700 GMT).
October state sector borrowing requirement data.
SAT holds ordinary shareholders' meeting (1000 GMT).
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 4
Milan Stock Exchange presents new companies listed on ELITE segment (0900 GMT).
Fullsix holds extraordinary shareholders' meeting (1000 GMT).
Board meeting on Q3 results: Banca Generali followed by conference call, Centrale Latte Torino, Space, Telecom Italia Media.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 5
Markit/ADACI releases October service PMI data (0845 GMT).
Board meetings on Q3 results: Assicurazioni Generali (press release on Nov. 6), EI Towers, Finmeccanica, Moleskine, Prelios, Txt e-solutions, Yoox followed by conference call.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 6
Assicurazioni Generali releases Q3 results.
Finmeccanica holds conference call Q3 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: A2A, Acque Potabili , Azimut, Be, Dea Capital, Pirelli & C., Prysmian followed by conference call, Safilo Group followed by conference call, Snai , Telecom Italia.
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 7
Bank of Italy releases October data on European Central Bank funding to Italian banks.
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 12.
Bagnoli, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi visits the town.
Board meetings on Q3 results: Acsm-Agam, Atlantia , Banco Sardegna, Bonifiche Ferraresi , Buzzi Unicem, Datalogic, Enel Green Power followed by conference call, FinecoBank , Italcementi, Parmalat, Retelit , Tesmec, Zignago Vetro (0900 GMT).
MONDAY NOVEMBER 10
ISTAT releases September industrial output data (0900 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases September data on bank deposits and September statistics on Italian government bond holdings at Italy-based banks.
Treasury announces sale of BTP bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 13.
Danieli & C. trades ex-dividend: 0.3000 euro per ordinary share and 0.3207 per savings share.
Italcementi holds conference call on Q3 results.
Sabaf trades ex-dividend 1.00 euro per share.
Board meetings on Q3 results: Banca Popolare Spoleto , Cementir, Fiera Milano, Fincantieri followed by conference call, Gtech followed by conference call, Molmed, Rosss .
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 11
Board meeting on Q3 results: Aeffe, Banca Carige , Banca Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria e del Lazio, Banca Popolare di Milano, Banco Popolare, Brunello Cucinelli followed by conference call, Caltagirone Editore , Credito Emiliano, Credito Valtellinese , d'Amico International Shipping followed by conference call, Enel followed by conference call, Exprivia, First Capital (1530 GMT), Interpump Group, Intesa Sanpaolo followed by conference call (1400 GMT), M&C, Mediaset (1500 GMT) followed by conference call (1700 GMT), Moncler followed by conference call, Nova Re, Primi Sui Motori (also on 2014 outlook), Sabaf followed by conference call (1400 GMT), Seat Pagine Gialle, UBI Banca, UniCredit.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 12
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Milan, "Private Equity Italian Forum" Italian investment fund 'Fondo Italiano di Investimento' CEO Gabriele Cappellini (0840 GMT); Moleskine CEO Arrigo Berni (1030 GMT); European Investment Fund Director John Holloway (1050 GMT).
Banca Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna holds conference call on Q3 results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Acea, Aedes, Astaldi, Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Banca Popolare di Sondrio, Beni Stabili, Cad It, Campari Group followed by conference call, Cattolica Assicurazioni, Cerved followed by conference call, Cobra, Conafi Prestit? , Dada, Edison, ERG, ErgyCapital, Falck Renewables, Gabetti Property Solutions, Gefran, Hera, IGD, Iren, Isagro (1500 GMT), LVenture Group, Maire Tecnimont, Prima Industrie, Ratti, Salini Impregilo , Tamburi Investment Partners, TAS, Terna followed by conference call, Tod's, Valsoia, Vianini Industria, Vianini Lavori .
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 13
ISTAT releases October final CPI and HICP data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Board meetings on Q1 results: Digital Bros, Juventus.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Acotel, Aeroporto di Firenze, Alba Private, Alerion CleanPower , Ambienthesis (1330 GMT), Arc Real Estate , Arnoldo Mondadori Editore followed by conference call, Ascopiave, Autogrill followed by conference call, Banco di Desio e della Brianza , Bastogi, Best Union, Biancamano , Brembo (0800 GMT), Brioschi, Cairo Communication, Caltagirone, Class Editori, Compagnia Immobiliare Azionaria, Elica followed by conference call, Esprinet, Eukedos, Fillsix, Gas Plus followed by conference call, Geox (press release and conference call at 1630 GMT), Immsi, Intek Group, Irce (1400 GMT), Kinexia, K.R.Energy, La Doria, Landi Renzo, Mediacontech, Mediolanum (0930 GMT) followed by conference call, Mid industry Capital, Pininfarina, RCS MediaGroup, Reply, Saes Getters, Salvatore Ferragamo followed by conference call, Saras followed by conference call (afternoon), SAT , SAVE, Servizi Italia, Sol , Tiscali (1400 GMT), Trevi Group, Unipol, UnipolSai, Vittoria Assicurazioni , Zucchi.
Conference call on Q3 results: ERG, Isagro (0930 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 14
ISTAT releases flash preliminary Q3 GDP data (0900 GMT); September industrial product import prices (1000 GMT).
Bank of Italy releases September data on public finances, state borrowing and debt.
Danieli & C. holds board meeting on Q1 results.
IKF holds board meeting on FY results.
Board meeting on Q3 results: Anima, Banca Finnat , B&C Speakers, Beghelli, Bialetti , Biesse, Boero Bartolomeo, Bolzoni , Caleffi (1330 GMT), Cembre, Ciccolella, Csp International (0800 GMT), DiaSorin, Eems, El.En., Emak , Enervit, Engineering, Eurotech , Exor, Fidia (0900 GMT), Gala , Gruppo Ceramiche Ricchetti, Gruppo MutuiOnline, IMA, Italmobiliare, IT WAY, IVS Group, Marr, Mondo TV , Nice followed by conference call, Noemalife , Olidata, PanariaGroup, Poligrafica San Faustino, Risanamento, Stefanel , World Duty Free Group followed by conference call.
Conference calls on Q3 results: Iren, Trevi Group (1500 GMT).
MONDAY NOVEMBER 17
ISTAT releases September foreign trade data (0900 GMT).
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 18
Rome, "FT Italy Summit" with Public Administration Minister Maria Anna Madia, Brunello Cucinelli Chairman Brunello Cucinelli, Labour Minister Giuliano Poletti.
Softec holds board meetingon Q3 results.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 19
Assicurazioni Generali holds "Investor Day" to update strategy.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 20
ISTAT releases September industry orders and sales (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of CTZ and BTPei bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 25.
Milan, ratings company DBRS holds "DBRS Day in Italy" (0800 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 21
ISTAT releases October wage inflation data (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BOT bills, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 26.
MONDAY NOVEMBER 24
ISTAT releases preliminary October non-UE trada flash data (0900 GMT).
Treasury announces sale of BTP and CCTeu bonds, with relative amounts to be auctioned on Nov. 27.
Mediobanca trades ex-dividend of 0.15 euro per share.
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 25
ISTAT releases September retail sales data (0900 GMT).
Assogestioni expected to release October fund flows data.
Treasury sells CTZ and BTPei bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Piquadro holds board meeting on Q1 results.
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 26
ISTAT releases November consumer confidence data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BOT bills. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 27
ISTAT releases November business confidence data (0900 GMT).
Treasury sells BTP and CCTeu bonds. Subscriptions close at 1000 GMT.
Reuters expected to release October asset allocation poll (1200 GMT).
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 28
ISTAT releases October an Q3 unemployment data (0900 GMT); November flash CPI and HICP data (1000 GMT); October producer prices (1100 GMT).
Florence, conference on "Italian financial brokerage" with Intesa Sanpaolo Management Board Chairman Gian Maria Gros-Pietro (0830 GMT). 
Released: 2014-10-14T12:46:12.000Z
Document LBA0000020141014eaae00bk5
 The Morning Download: Salesforce¡¦s New Analytics Platform Reflects Cloud¡¦s Growing Reach
CIO Report, 07:03, 14 October 2014, 1690 words, By Steve Rosenbush, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download ...
Document WCCIOR0020141014eaae0002t
 The Morning Ledger: Who Needs a CFO? Everyone, Almost
CFO Report, 06:00, 14 October 2014, 1983 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each weekday morning ...
Document WCCFO00020141014eaae0005l
N.Asian refiners slash oil product spot prices due to weak demand
720 words
14 October 2014
04:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Competition from US shale leaves naphtha margin at 26-month low
* North Asian refiners sell gasoil, naphtha at deep discounts
* Refineries could make run cuts if margins continue weak
By Jessica Jaganathan and Seng Li Peng
SINGAPORE, Oct 14 (Reuters) - North Asian refineries are slashing spot prices of most oil products to multi-year lows to get rid of high inventory as they battle weak regional demand and competition from a booming U.S. shale market, industry sources said.
Some might also consider run cuts if oil product margins continue to slide and supplies remain ample.
The Asian gasoil margin has averaged about $14 a barrel above Dubai crude so far in October, compared with about $17 in the same period last year, Reuters data showed.
Weak demand from the industrial sector due to slowing economies in big consuming countries such as China is putting downward pressure on gasoil prices even though the fourth quarter sees peak demand for the fuel used for heating.
The Asian naphtha crack hit a 26-month low of $62.63 a tonne on Oct. 10, before recovering slightly to $63.95 on Monday, partly due to the U.S. shale boom and the flow of east-bound cargoes from Europe and the Mediterranean.
KEEP RUN RATES
Most North Asian refineries are maintaining run rates at above 80 percent as they are forced to meet term commitments, while some are taking advantage of cheaper feedstock such as crude oil, driving up inventory and lowering prices of oil products, traders said.
Taiwan's Formosa Petrochemicals Corp, for instance, sold an October-loading gasoil cargo at a record low cash discount as its refinery is running at 95 percent of capacity, traders said.
"We don't have any plans to reduce run rates yet as we have already prepared the feedstock and the price of feedstock is declining, but with margins also declining, it might be hard to sustain such high operating rates," a Formosa spokesman said.
The company might cut run rates in November if margins continue to deteriorate, although no decision has been taken yet, he added.
Brent crude fell on Monday to its lowest level since December 2010 because of rising supply and a weakening global economic outlook.
South Korean refiners are selling their diesel cargoes for about 30 percent lower than a month ago.
S-Oil Corp has sold a naphtha cargo for October loading at a discount of $12 a tonne to Japan quotes on a free-on-board (FOB) basis and SK Energy has sold a November-loading naphtha cargo at a discount of $15 a tonne, multi-year lows.
This contrasts sharply with the $53 a tonne premium S-Oil received for a March-loading cargo this year.
S-Oil Corp and Samsung Total Petrochemicals Co are maintaining their run-rates at just above 90 percent, while Hyundai Oilbank is holding its operating rate at about 80 percent of capacity for now, industry sources said.
Hyundai, the smallest refiner in South Korea, might consider lowering its throughput if middle distillate margins continue to hover between $12 and $14 a barrel above Dubai crude, a source said.
SK Energy, which is South Korea's top refiner, plans to keep its run rate in November the same as this month due to weak margins, even though a secondary unit is expected to be back from maintenance, a source familiar with the matter said.
"Refineries have to continue to sell, except for strategic stockpiling reasons like winter kerosene, so if the market continues to be bearish, the discount on cargoes will widen," a North Asian refining source said.
Refineries are also limited as to how much they are able to lower run rates as they would already be committed to lifting term crude oil cargoes and selling a certain volume of oil products.
"Crude price falls actually hurt the refiners as they would have bought the crude based on the previous month's prices while selling the refined oil products at this month's prices," a second North Asian trader said.
"The crude oil prices have been falling since June, so margins are very bad and refineries are losing money." (Editing by Alan Raybould) 
Released: 2014-10-14T10:04:27.000Z
Document LBA0000020141014eaae008gh
WSJ.D Technology: TSMC Is Bracing for A Battle in Chip Sector
By Aries Poon   
507 words
14 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
HSINCHU, Taiwan -- At Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., hundreds of engineers have joined a newly instituted overnight shift. Their task is to come up with advanced technology to mass produce some of the world's most intricate computing chips in the shortest time possible.
Pressure is looming over the world's biggest contract chip maker by revenue, which makes the computing brains for smartphones and other gadgets. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing neck-and-neck to pack more computing power into each chip.
Taiwan-based TSMC is preparing for an uphill battle in the coming year as rivals' more-advanced chips are set to hit the market sooner. Intel Corp., the world's biggest semiconductor maker, is entering the so-called chip foundry business -- making chips based on others' designs -- to expand the use of its plants and has secured clients such as Panasonic Corp. and Altera Corp. Morris Chang, TSMC's 83-year-old chairman, is also preparing for a leadership succession, trying to plan a smooth transition to his two co-chief executives.
"This is a war. I am not leaving anything to chance," Mr. Chang, who founded the company in 1987, said in an interview at TSMC's headquarters, located in the south of Taipei.
TSMC was one of the first major chip makers to move to 20-nanometer chip process technology last year. A chip's transistor components and the spaces between them are measured in nanometers -- a billionth of a meter. The smaller the space between components, the more powerful the chip.
That transition allowed TSMC to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for a massive order from Apple Inc. for iPhones. Thanks to Apple, which is seeing strong demand for its smartphones, TSMC's revenue rose to a record US$6.88 billion in the third quarter, its second consecutive quarterly high. On Thursday, the company is expected to report a 40% jump in net profit, according to analysts' estimates, likely setting a new high.
Still, Mr. Chang concedes that both Intel and rival Samsung will be months ahead of TSMC in adopting the next-generation chip process technology. TSMC plans to mass-produce its chips with 16-nanometer technology from the third quarter next year.
By comparison, Intel, the world's biggest chip maker by revenue, has said devices using its 14-nanometer chips will be available in October, while Samsung plans to mass produce chips on the same technology by the end of this year.
"TSMC would lose some orders to Samsung next year because of the lag, but we hope to recoup some of the lost businesses in 2016," he said, noting that TSMC plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC's design in the fourth quarter of next year.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141014eaae00010
 Where to Buy the New iPhone 6 in India
WSJ Blogs, 23:45, 13 October 2014, 459 words, By R. Jai Krishna, (English)
On Friday, iPhone junkies in India will get their latest fix when the newest versions of Apple Inc.'s smartphones, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, hit the market.
Document WCWSJB0020141014eaae000gp
New Wireless Race Takes Shape
By Simon Zekaria   
766 words
14 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Europe's largest telecom providers are gearing up for a battle in the lucrative race to connect things as diverse as cars, homes and utilities to smartphones and other wireless devices.
The "Internet of Things" market is the catchall term for an electronic device that can be wirelessly connected to the Internet. AT&T Inc. and rival Verizon Communications Inc.'s Verizon Wireless have led the charge for U.S. telecommunications operators, and have seen niche Internet of Things services such as parcel tracking expand into global businesses.
Now, after their core telecom revenue growth has been outstripped by "machine-to-machine" businesses, and with traditional revenue streams being pressed by tough market conditions, European telecom companies view the Internet of Things as a prime source of new revenue.
"We are one of the few parts of the organization that grows," says Telefonica SA's global Internet of Things chief, Surya Mendonca.
According to network-systems company Cisco Systems Inc., the value of that market is expected to grow to $19 trillion over the next 10 years, as networks for sectors such as traffic systems, shipping, rail freight and industrial manufacturing take shape. Meanwhile, the number of Internet of Things-focused developers is likely to leap to four million in 2020 from 300,000 this year, says telecom group Interoute.
It is at this junction that the telecom companies are skirmishing with technology giants such as ARM Holdings PLC, Samsung Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Both telecom and technology are levering "hardware, the ubiquitous nature of connectivity, big data and analysis" in a face-off to grab expanding revenue linked to the Internet of Things, says Chris Gray, analyst at U.S. software company Red Hat Inc.
Google, Apple and Samsung have made recent inroads into homes. This year, Google bought Nest Labs, Apple is launching HomeKit and Samsung acquired SmartThings to allow users to control home settings and sync devices.
Telecom companies have significant skin in the game. Internet of Things technology works on sensors and SIM cards inside devices linked to data servers over cellular networks. Data is sent over radio waves via the SIM, sometimes via another radio transmitter. External software applications like smartphone apps pick up the signals and use the data to control devices -- for instance, a car telling a garage to open.
The need for comprehensive mobile network coverage to power the connections between devices means the telecom companies, which are investing billions of dollars to upgrade mobile infrastructure, are in prime position.
For Telefonica, Vodafone Group PLC, Orange SA and Deutsche Telekom AG, the importance of not being left behind in the race for "machine-to-machine" business means deal-making for Internet-enabled connected services and devices is increasing, analysts say.
The connected-cars sector is one of the most active.
Telefonica has a partnership with electric-car maker Tesla in major European markets and connects General Motors Co. vehicles through the car group's OnStar communications unit. Orange also works with Tesla, in France, alongside other deals with PSA Peugeot Citroen and Renault SA. Orange SA is also launching smartphone service Orange Drive next year, which gives users voice-activated radio controls and tips on efficient driving.
Vodafone has signed up with Germany's BMW AG and, in August, bought Italian car-services firm Cobra Automotive. Deutsche Telekom also maintains a partnership with BMW, and last Friday joined China Mobile Ltd., the world's largest mobile provider, in a connected-cars venture.
Smart homes are another battleground. Last month, Telefonica launched a trial of AT&T's home-security, automation and energy-management platform in Europe. Deutsche Telekom has built on the 2011 launch of smart-home platform Quivicon to control appliances through partners such as Samsung and wireless-speaker maker Sonos.
Orange -- not to be left behind by the offerings of Google, Apple and Samsung -- will launch Homelive, incorporating applications with thermostats and movement detectors, later this month.
Telecom companies are also monitoring utilities, hoping to capitalize on the market as energy regulation tightens. Last year, Telefonica struck a 15-year deal valued at GBP 1.5 billion ($2.4 billion) to connect smart meters in the U.K., while Vodafone is working with energy supplier Npower to install smart meters in the country.
Orange is working with France's Electricite de France SA to track electricity consumption, through a sensor inserted into the meter. The service is expected to be introduced in France next year.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document WSJE000020141014eaae0000x
 Samsung Elec CEO hoses down chip war fears
Reuters, 22:04, 13 October 2014, 337 words, (English)
SEOUL Oct 14 (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd does not expect a price war to break out in the semiconductor industry next year even though it is ramping up capacity, the chief executive of the world's biggest memory chip maker said on ...
Document WCLBA00020141014eaae0015u
 Bose & Beats Settle Patent Suit
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 13 October 2014, 884 words, (English)
Summary: Headphone makers Bose & Beats settle a patent lawsuit ... Yelp is beating Google in local reviews ... and Samsung loves its latest brand ranking. WSJ's Bill Fantini has those stories and more.
Document MMSAJW0020141013eaad00001
PREVIEW-S.Korea central bank seen cutting rates again this week
792 words
12 October 2014
23:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 13 (Reuters) - South Korea's central bank is
expected to cut interest rates on Wednesday for the second time
in three months in a further bid to re-energize an underpowered
economic recovery, a Reuters survey found on Monday.
    Of 30 analysts polled, 18 forecast the Bank of Korea would
cut its seven-day base rate at its meeting on
Wednesday. Six of the remaining 12 expect the central bank to
cut rates in November instead of this month, after third-quarter
GDP data due on Oct. 24 is published.
    "The central bank isn't viewing growing household debt as a
serious problem and some board members showed signs they could
vote to cut rates further in last month's minutes," said Kim
Jina, a fixed-income analyst at IBK Securities. 
    "The Bank of Korea will likely cut the growth forecast and
rates on Wednesday," Kim said.
    A downgrade is expected when the Bank of Korea releases the 
latest economic growth forecast on Wednesday, after Bank of
Korea Gov. Lee Ju-yeol said last week that growth is expected to
be in the mid-3 percent range this year.
    The central bank currently forecasts the economy will grow
3.8 percent this year and 4.0 percent the next. 
    Regardless of their view on the rate decision this week,
most economists agreed if the Bank of Korea decides to lower
rates again, it would be under further pressure from the
government, as was seen to be the case with the August cut.
    Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan has not explicitly
discussed the future direction of interest rates in public but
has repeated that the economy is still weak and the ongoing
recovery is slow. 
    The minister also reiterated on the sidelines of a series of
international meetings over the weekend in the United States
that there was "little difference" between the government and
central bank in their understanding of the economic situation.
    "Right now the main driving force behind the bond market is
Choi. If the central bank doesn't cut this week it'll do it
within the year," said Shin Eol, a fixed-income analyst at
Hyundai Securities.
    "Even after a second rate cut, pressure to align policy with
the government will still live on," Shin said.
    Bond yields have steadily drifted down in recent weeks on
expectations for another rate cut. The 1-year treasury bond
yield ended Friday's session at 2.164 points,
roughly 10 basis points lower than the policy rate.
    Meanwhile, recent economic indicators have been mixed, as
manufacturers reported a decline in export orders in September
while inflation hit a seven-month low last month, giving the
central bank room to cut interest rates further.
    Exports in September grew at their fastest pace in nine
months, while imports rose at their quickest since early 2012.
Housing prices across South Korea have been on a steady rise,
growing for a 13th month in September thanks to an easing in 
regulation and low interest rates.
    All but one of the 18 analysts who saw a rate cut this week
said the base rate would be lowered by 25 basis points, while
the remaining analyst said the central bank would shave off 10
basis points.
  
    Details of the Reuters survey on Oct. 15 policy meeting and
views on the next interest rate move (the current base rate is
2.25 percent):
 COMPANY                           OCT 15    NEXT MOVE  TIMING
 ANZ                                 2.00    hold through 2015
 Barclays                            2.00    hike       Q1 2015
 Capital Economics                   2.25    hike       ~
 Credit Agricole                     2.25    ~          ~
 Daewoo Securities                   2.00    ~          ~
 Dongbu Securities                   2.25    cut        Nov
 Eugene Investment & Securities      2.25    cut        Nov
 Goldman Sachs                       2.25    ~          ~
 Hana Daetoo Securities              2.25    cut        Nov
 Hanwha Securities                   2.00    cut        Q1 2015
 HMC Investment & Securities         2.00    ~          ~
 HSBC                                2.25    hike       Q3 2015
 Hyundai Securities                  2.00    ~          ~
 IBK Securities                      2.00    hike       Q4 2015
 IM Investment & Securities          2.25    cut        Nov
 ING                                 2.00    ~          ~
 KB Investment & Securities          2.25    hike       Q4 2015
 Kiwoom Securities                   2.00    hike       Q2 2015
 Kyobo Investment Trust              2.00    cut        Q1 2015
 LIG Investment & Securities         2.25    hike       mid-2015
 NH Investment & Securities          2.00    ~          ~
 Nomura                              2.00    ~          ~
 Samsung Securities                  2.00    ~          ~
 Shinhan Investment Corp             2.00    ~          ~
 SK Securities                       2.00    ~          ~
 Societe General                     2.00    hike       Q3 2015
 Standard Chartered                  2.25    cut        Nov
 Taurus Investment & Securities      2.25    cut        Nov
 Tong Yang Securities                2.15    ~          ~
 Woori Investment & Securities       2.00    ~          ~
 ~ No forecast
 (Reporting by Sohee Kim, Kahyun Yang and Joonhee Yu; Writing by
Christine Kim; Editing by Tony Munroe and Eric Meijer)
Released: 2014-10-16T04:57:30.000Z
Document LBA0000020141013eaad004bl
 Korea¡¦s Corporate Governance Woes
WSJ Blogs, 02:45, 13 October 2014, 466 words, By In-Soo Nam, (English)
Hyundai Motor Co.'s $10 billion land purchase deal last month was the latest example of how South Korea's conglomerates, known as chaebols, are raising the ire of shareholder activists seeking to change corporate decision ...
Document WCWSJB0020141013eaad001b9
Search Summary
 Textsamsung   DateIn the last 3 months   SourceReuters Newswires Or The Wall Street Journal - All sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectAll Subjects   IndustryAll Industries   RegionAll Regions   LanguageEnglish   Results Found1,625   Timestamp29 October 2014 3:21  
 Page 127 of 130     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.
 Heads and Tails of All Those Health Wearables
The Wall Street Journal Digits, 29 October 2014, 395 words, (English)
Summary: From Apple¡¦s Health Kit, to Google¡¦s Fit and Samsung¡¦s SAMI, it¡¦s getting hard to keep track of all those health wearables. WSJ¡¦s Jason Bellini helps break it down in this Short Answer.
Document MMSAWD0020141029eaat00001
Business
LG Electronics¡¦ Net Profit Surges; Company Sells Record Number of Smartphones in Third Quarter
By Min-Jeong Lee 
440 words
28 October 2014
22:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SEOUL¡XLG Electronics Inc. said Wednesday its third-quarter net profit nearly doubled from a year earlier after it sold a record number of smartphones.
The South Korean electronics company continued to eat into its bigger rival Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s market share for mobile devices, particularly at home. But globally, LG is struggling against Apple Inc. and faces a newer challenge from fast-rising Chinese handset makers.
LG said its net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 87% to 203 billion won ($194 million) from 108.5 billion won a year earlier.
The company sold 16.8 million smartphones during the quarter, up 39% from 12 million sold a year earlier and a record for the company. Operating profit doubled to 461 billion won, with the mobile division accounting for more than a third of profits, the company said.
Following its second consecutive quarter of profit in the mobile division, LG said it will stick to a two-track smartphone strategy spearheaded by the company¡¦s premium G series and cheaper L series models.
Local analysts estimate LG¡¦s global market share came close to 5% in the latest quarter, a tad higher from last year¡¦s levels. But a continued tug of war is expected against upstart Chinese brands such as Xiaomi Inc., which is estimated by analysts to have sold a similar number of smartphones as LG during the same period.
LG is better positioned in South Korea, where it grabbed a 27% handset market share in the third quarter, its highest in years, and up from just 18% a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research. During the same period, Samsung¡¦s share slipped to 60% from 66%, according to the same estimates.
LG executives hope the progress it is making at home will translate into overseas sales.
¡§Before, they [overseas partners] didn¡¦t even spare us a glance. But now, most carriers take our products without any doubt,¡¨ said Chris Yie, a vice president for marketing at LG¡¦s mobile division, said in a recent interview.
The number of global carriers that placed orders for LG¡¦s latest G3 smartphone at launch was roughly 170, up by 30% from the previous model, Mr. Yie said. The big four U.S. telecom companies¡XVerizon Communications Inc., AT&T Inc., T-Mobile US Inc. and Sprint Corp.¡Xall sell the G3. Analysts estimate Samsung to have had roughly 200 carrier partners for the launch of its latest top-of-the-line model, the Galaxy S5.
Document WSJO000020141029eaat0015q
Markets
Xiaomi¡¦s $1 Billion Loan Draws 29 Banks; Smartphone Maker Attracts Interest as Bankers Look for Next Big Chinese Tech Deal
By Prudence Ho 
258 words
28 October 2014
22:42
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Bankers still feeling the buzz of Alibaba Group¡¦s blockbuster listing last month have been casting around for the next big tech deal out of China. If the appetite by creditors to lend to Xiaomi Inc. is anything to go by, this four-year-old smartphone maker could be it.
Xiaomi, which sells more smartphones than even Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in China, has borrowed $1 billion from 29 banks for a three-year loan, its first move to tap overseas funds for cash. The smartphone maker has moved beyond China to sell in India and Indonesia, and a person familiar with the loan said it is raising the funds from the loan to expand overseas.
The three-year, $1 billion loan is set to close Friday, with Brazil¡¦s Banco do Brasil to Japan¡¦s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ among the 29 that have joined Wall Street and Chinese banks as lenders, people familiar with the matter said.
The lead bankers on the loan are Deutsche Bank AG, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, with Credit Suisse Group and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also taking part.
In attracting so many banks to its loan, Xiaomi has beaten Alibaba, which borrowed $8 billion last year from 22 banks, many of whom, bankers said, were eager to get in on the Chinese e-commerce giant¡¦s IPO mandate.
Document WSJO000020141029eaat001e1
Dialog Semi Q3 oper profit jumps on demand from gadget makers
185 words
29 October 2014
01:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
FRANKFURT, Oct 29 (Reuters) - German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said on Wednesday its third-quarter operating profit rose 61 percent as makers of smartphones and tablets, who use its chips were increasing production.
Third-quarter earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) excluding special items, rose to $51.7 million beating the average of $41 million in a Reuters poll.
Dialog makes chips which manage power consumption of consumer gadgets such as smartphones and tablets. Apple and Samsung Electronics are among their main customers.
"We have successfully delivered the first phase of the steep ramp of new products for our customers. Now the focus turns to pushing ahead with completing that ramp in what will be a very busy end of the year for us and our customers," Dialog's Chief Executive Jalal Bagherli said in a statement.
The company said it expected full year revenue of between $1.11-1.15 billion, while gross margins are expected to improve. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by Kirsti Knolle) 
Released: 2014-10-29T07:59:44.000Z
Document LBA0000020141029eaat007ih
 Dialog Semi Q3 oper profit jumps on demand from gadget makers
Reuters, 01:59, 29 October 2014, 274 words, (English)
FRANKFURT Oct 29 (Reuters) - German chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said on Wednesday its third-quarter operating profit rose 61 percent as makers of smartphones and tablets, who use its chips were increasing production.
Document WCLBA00020141029eaat002bo
 Samsung Earnings: What to Watch
WSJ Blogs, 00:20, 29 October 2014, 493 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. is scheduled to release its third-quarter earnings Thursday morning before markets open. Here¡¦s what you need to know.
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaat00105
S.Korean shares rally to 3-wk high on dovish Fed outlook, won firmer
216 words
29 October 2014
01:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(For the midday report, please click )
SEOUL, Oct 29 (Reuters) - South Korean shares rallied to a fresh 3-week high on Wednesday, buoyed by expectations that the U.S Federal Reserve will take a dovish stance regarding the timing of its next interest rate hike.
The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) soared 1.84 percent to close at 1,961.17 points, it's highest since October 8.
Shares in LG Electronics surged 4.3 percent after announcing its third-quarter earnings guidance during afternoon trade, which showed July-September profits had more than doubled compared to a year before.
Samsung Heavy Industries shares jumped 7.1 percent after a 288 billion won ($275.07 million) share buyback plan, disclosed via regulatory filing.
The South Korean won was slightly firmer, as dollar bulls were reined in by expectations of the Fed reassuring the market that interest rates could be maintained at near zero levels for a considerable time.
The local currency was quoted at 1,047.3 to the dollar at the conclusion of onshore trade, compared to Tuesday's closing rate of 1,049.7. (Reporting by Joonhee Yu; Editing by Biju Dwarakanath) 
Released: 2014-10-29T07:20:26.000Z
Document LBA0000020141029eaat006u9
EM ASIA FX-Hopes of dovish Fed support Asia FX; won's gains curbed
689 words
29 October 2014
00:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* S.Korea president sees weak yen as risks to economy
    * Won has chart resistance around 1,043 per dollar
    * Ringgit gains on weak dollar
 (Adds text, updates crisis)
    By Jongwoo Cheon
    SINGAPORE, Oct 29 (Reuters) - Most emerging Asian currencies
rose on Wednesday as the dollar eased on expectations that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will reaffirm its intention to wait longer
before hiking interest rates.
    South Korea's won hit a one-month-high as Seoul
shares rallied, and on expectations of exporters' demand
from month-end settlements.
    The currency pared some gains as caution grew over possible
intervention to stem its strength as President Park Geun-hye
said she was concerned about the impact of a weaker yen.
Some traders suspected dollar bids from the authorities.
    The Malaysian ringgit advanced as investors cut
long dollar positions.
    The Fed is expected to announce the end of its bond-buying
programme when it concludes a two-day policy meeting later on
Wednesday. The U.S. central bank is unlikely to flag a rise in
interest rates soon due to slow global growth and low inflation.
 
    Emerging Asian currencies have priced in such expectations
and investors may hesitate to chase regional units, especially
on sustained concerns over slowing growth in major economies,
analysts said.
    "A dovish Fed may support Asia FX further. Still, I doubt
how much more they can strengthen from here unless Europe and
China economies improve," said Jeong My-young, Samsung Futures'
research head in Seoul.
    
    WON
    The won rose as much as 0.4 percent to 1,045.6 per dollar,
its strongest since Sept. 26.
    South Korea's central bank views exports as faring well
despite the won's relative strength to currencies of its trading
partners, a Bank of Korea official said earlier. 
    The local currency pared some of its earlier gains as Park
said the economy faces the risk of falling into a long-term
slump, citing low growth, low inflation and a softer yen. South
Korean and Japanese companies compete head-on for a similar
group of products on major markets around the world.
    Against the yen, the won gained 0.2 percent to
9.6608, its strongest since Oct. 6.
    Traders hesitated to chase the won further, seeing chart
resistance around 1,043 per dollar.
    It has a 200-day moving average at 1,043.1 and the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement at 1,043.0 of its depreciation
between September and October.
    Some analysts saw "good chances" to buy the won against the
dollar on dips with stops below 1,038.    
    
    RINGGIT
    The ringgit gained in thin trading as investors cut dollar
holdings on expectations that the Fed will take a dovish stance.
    The Malaysian currency also advanced against the
neighbouring Singapore dollar.
    CURRENCIES VS U.S. DOLLAR
    Change on the day at 0405 GMT
  Currency    Latest bid   Previous day    Pct Move
  Japan yen       108.12         108.16       +0.04
  Sing dlr        1.2725         1.2720       -0.04
  Taiwan dlr      30.365         30.398       +0.11
  Korean won     1047.26        1049.70       +0.23
  Baht             32.48          32.45       -0.09
  Peso             44.70          44.78       +0.17
  Rupiah        12153.00       12165.00       +0.10
  Rupee            61.30          61.32       +0.03
  Ringgit         3.2680         3.2745       +0.20
  Yuan            6.1114         6.1133       +0.03
 
  Change so far in 2014
  Currency    Latest bid  End prev year    Pct Move
  Japan yen       108.12         105.28       -2.63
  Sing dlr        1.2725         1.2632       -0.73
  Taiwan dlr      30.365         29.950       -1.37
  Korean won     1047.26        1055.40       +0.78
  Baht             32.48          32.86       +1.17
  Peso             44.70          44.40       -0.68
  Rupiah        12153.00       12160.00       +0.06
  Rupee            61.30          61.80       +0.82
  Ringgit         3.2680         3.2755       +0.23
  Yuan            6.1114         6.0539       -0.94
    
 (Additional reporting by Reuters FX Analyst Krishna Kumar in
SYDNEY; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)
Released: 2014-10-29T06:36:27.000Z
Document LBA0000020141029eaat0063h
UPDATE 1-LG Elec Q3 profit more than doubles from yr ago on mobile
420 words
29 October 2014
00:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Updates with comments, background, share price move)
* Q3 operating profit $440 mln vs $434 mln analyst f'casts
* LG's mobile profit at 5-yr high on record smartphone shipments
* Shares extend gains, outperform broader market
SEOUL, Oct 29 (Reuters) - South Korea's LG Electronics Inc on Wednesday said its July-September operating profit more than doubled from a year earlier as earnings from its mobile business surged to a five-year high.
The world's No. 2 television maker after domestic rival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said profits for its TV business grew 5.2 percent from a year earlier, while smartphone shipments rose to a fresh record.
"LG's earnings reflected strong performance from its mobile business," the company said in a statement.
LG reported an operating profit of 461 billion won ($440.21 million), better than a 454 billion won mean estimate from a Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S poll of 36 analysts.
LG's mobile division turned a 167 billion won operating profit, its highest since the third quarter of 2009 and compared with a 79.7 billion won loss a year ago, thanks in part to strong shipments for the flagship G3 smartphone.
The pickup contrasts with domestic rival Samsung, which is expected to report its weakest quarterly operating profit in more than three years on Thursday, following a lacklustre run of new product launches.
While LG does not disclose individual product numbers, IM Investment analyst Kim Woon-ho estimated before the earnings disclosure that LG likely shipped a little over 3 million G3s during the period.
LG said it shipped 16.8 million smartphones during the third quarter, a record but well below Samsung, which some analysts estimate shipped more than 80 million units.
LG's TV division reported a 131 billion won operating profit, compared with 124 billion a year ago as sales of high-end products like ultra high-definition TVs grew. On Tuesday the company said it would wind down its plasma television business by end-November, signalling an imminent demise for a technology that has been overtaken by liquid crystal display.
Shares of LG Electronics extended gains following the results and were last up 4.2 percent in afternoon trade compared with a 1.7 percent rise for the broader market.
(1 US dollar = 1,047.2200 Korean won) (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) 
Released: 2014-10-29T06:25:56.000Z
Document LBA0000020141029eaat005k8
TSMC Adds LG To Customer Base
By Min-Jeong Lee   
354 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
NPC
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which has boosted its profile in the chip-manufacturing industry by signing deals with Apple Inc., has added LG Electronics Inc. to its list of customers for the high-tech chipsets used in smartphones.
LG Electronics said Friday that it has developed its own microprocessor to power a variation of its flagship G3 smartphone, a first for the South Korean electronics company. Thus far, LG has relied mainly on Qualcomm Inc. for the chips that run its smartphones.
"The chips will be made by TSMC, as LG doesn't have chip factories," a person familiar with the matter said. He said LG and TSMC have been working together for months to develop the new chipset, dubbed Nuclun, but didn't provide further details.
Specifications for the Nuclun aren't quite at top-notch level, but they are similar to the chips that power other premium smartphones, according to LG. For example, one version of Samsung Electronics Co.'s Galaxy Note 4 smartphone comes with a mobile processor similar in structure to the Nuclun, just slightly faster.
With the new push into chip development, LG said it was aiming to further diversify its product strategy against stronger competition. Following a period of losses, LG's mobile unit has been in recovery in recent months thanks to a better-than-expected reception for the company's G3 model, which was launched earlier this year.
But it is too early to tell if LG's internally developed chipsets will bring the company success. Making the right microprocessor has been a challenge even for Samsung, which has a long history of expertise in chip making, analysts say. Samsung-branded mobile processors, called the Exynos series, haven't been a popular choice, even for its Galaxy lineup of smartphones. LG used to have its own chip business but divested itself of the division in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s as a part of a broad restructuring of the country's conglomerates.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141029eaat00002
 South Korea¡¦s Export Weakness Puzzles Economists
WSJ Blogs, 23:51, 28 October 2014, 624 words, By Tom Wright, (English)
South Korea¡¦s exports to China have underperformed Taiwan¡¦s this year, leaving economists scratching their heads.
Both countries exports to China are similar: electronics, steel and chemical goods. Both send around a third of their total ...
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaat000xd
UPDATE 2-S.Korea's president warns of long-term economic stagnation risk
643 words
28 October 2014
23:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Low growth, low inflation, weak yen are risks to economy
* President Park says "golden time" to rebuild economy
* Park wants speedier handling of law bills (Recasts with analyst, markets)
By Ju-min Park and Choonsik Yoo
SEOUL, Oct 29 (Reuters) - South Korean President Park Geun-hye warned the economy is at risk of falling into long-term stagnation and urged for speedier handling of economic law bills in parliament.
Low growth, low inflation and a weak Japanese yen, along with a fast-ageing population, were key economic risks, Park said in a televised speech in parliament, noting that the country was at a crossroads between growth and stagnation.
Park's remarks come as indicators underline worsening consumer confidence and weak global demand. Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan has held a similarly bleak assessment of the economy since introducing a series of stimulus measures in July.
"We are at the crossroads between achieving another leap forward and falling into a stagnation, and this is the golden time to rebuild the economy," Park said, while the government submitted next year's budget bill to parliament.
Asia's fourth-largest economy will probably pick up to grow around 3.5 percent this year from 3.0 percent in 2013, Park said, but she added the economy was still in crisis as the outlook remained uncertain both locally and globally.
The won pared losses while bond futures rose as Park's renewed warning of long-term stagnation reinforced the market's view the central bank could loosen monetary policy.
RATE CUT CHANCES RISE
The government is seeking parliamentary approval for next year's budget bill, including plans to increase fiscal spending by 5.7 percent to 376.0 trillion won ($359.4 billion) from this year - a bigger increase in spending than previously projected.
The country's fiscal year starts on Jan. 1 and parliament is due to finalise the budget plans by Dec. 2, although it has frequently missed the deadline.
The Bank of Korea was seen under pressure to cut rates, the fourth time it would do so since the middle of last year.
"On the surface, I think her comments were mainly aimed at arousing public pressure over the main parties to finalise next year's budget bill in time, but these remarks helped reinforce expectations among traders for a fresh rate cut," said Park Sang-hyun, chief economist at HI Investment and Securities.
The Bank of Korea cut its benchmark interest rate by a total of 75 basis points in three steps since May last year and traders were almost equally split over the likelihood of another rate cut, Park of HI said.
The won was trading at 1,047.6 per dollar at 0351 GMT, off a session high of 1,045.6. December futures on three-year treasury bonds were up 0.02 points at 107.88.
President Park reiterated her commitment to transforming the economy into a more balanced one between manufacturing and service sectors and between exports and domestic operations.
South Korea's economy is heavily influenced by a few big manufacturing-based business conglomerates, such as Samsung Electronics and Hyundai Motor, and Park has pledged to change the structure.
But her government has not taken any bold steps toward weakening the power of the conglomerates, known as chaebol, but is instead trying to encourage the creation of smaller companies and expand financial support for smaller enterprises.
Government data shows the combined annual sales of the country's top five chaebol amounted to 831 trillion won in 2013, equivalent to 58 percent of the country's annual gross domestic product - up from 40 percent in 2004.
($1 = 1,046.3000 Korean won) (Editing by Michael Perry and Jacqueline Wong) 
Released: 2014-10-29T05:41:23.000Z
Document LBA0000020141029eaat001pn
 South Korea faces risk of long-term economic slump: president
Reuters, 21:07, 28 October 2014, 311 words, Michael Perry and Jacqueline Wong, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's economy was still in crisis despite some signs of improvement and it faces the risk of falling into a long-term slump, President Park Geun-hye said on Wednesday.
Document WCLBA00020141029eaat000p2
LG-Samsung Rivalry Intensifies
By Min-Jeong Lee   
979 words
29 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
19
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Samsung Electronics Co. has been battling Apple Inc. in the cutthroat global smartphone market, but in its own backyard, the South Korean technology giant has been fighting off a half-century-old rival, LG Electronics Inc.
While it isn't yet a big material threat like low-cost Chinese makers, LG has been nibbling at Samsung's smartphone market share and is becoming a bigger player in a number of product categories, including TVs and home appliances, and gaining technological edge in key components like displays. The two keep very close tabs each other's product launch plans, according to people familiar with the matter.
To be sure, LG's gains are coming in Samsung's massive shadow. Samsung's revenue of 229 trillion won ($218 billion) for 2013 is nearly four times bigger than LG's 58 trillion won revenue for the same period, and Samsung's 30.5 trillion won net profit dwarfs LG's 223 billion won. In the second quarter, Samsung had a 25.2% share of the global smartphone market, while LG had 4.9%, according to researcher Strategy Analytics. Samsung remains a dominant force in terms of shipments for TVs and memory chips.
But when Samsung released its third-quarter earnings estimates earlier this month, its struggles in the smartphone market became ever more apparent. Samsung said its operating profit in the third quarter more than halved from a year earlier, largely due to weakness in its smartphone business. Its TV and display unit isn't expected to have done any better.
LG, which reports earnings on Wednesday, is expected to see its operating profit as much as double, according to analysts, thanks to a better-than-expected reception of the G3 smartphone it launched in May. In South Korea, LG grabbed a 27% handset market share in the third quarter, its highest in years, and up from just 18% a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research. During the same period, Samsung's share slipped to 60% from 66%.
LG's display-making affiliate, LG Display Co., is poised to top its bigger rival Samsung Display Co. in both revenue and profit in the third quarter on solid sales of high-end screens used in Apple's iPhones as well as LG's flagship G series phones. Meanwhile, LG Display's growing expertise in large-size, next-generation displays has allowed LG Electronics to beat Samsung in the launch of a series of curved-screen and super-thin TV sets.
Still, in a sign that Samsung is becoming increasingly conscious of its much-smaller hometown rival, the company took a page from LG's playbook by introducing a rear-button function with its latest Galaxy Note 4 smartphone, which LG first introduced in its G2 smartphone last year.
LG didn't miss out on the rare opportunity to mock its bigger rival by tweeting through one of its official accounts: "Thank you 4 taking Note." Samsung declined to comment on the tweet.
For decades, the crosstown rivals have taken pride in pioneering technologies used in everything from TVs and refrigerators to washing machines and mobile devices. They compete in nearly identical global markets and product categories.
Their rivalry culminated in a bitter fight in September when LG executives entered an electronics shop in Berlin and allegedly broke the doors of multiple high-end Samsung washing machines. Samsung swiftly filed a formal complaint with the Supreme Prosecutors' Office, requesting an investigation. LG denied allegations of ill intent, saying the executives were casually "checking out" the doors when they unexpectedly broke. LG also took the occasion to highlight that it outsells Samsung in washing machines, one of the few categories where LG tops Samsung.
The incident is under investigation by the South Korean authorities. The prosecutors' office declined to comment on ongoing probes.
LG -- which began in 1958 as a company called Gold Star, a maker of radios -- has a history of falling behind Samsung in technological prowess. Its revenue was almost on par with that of Samsung, which was established in 1969, as a maker of black-and-white TVs, until the mid-1980s, when Samsung made a lucrative push into computers and semiconductors.
The gap widened after the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, when the government forced LG to divest its chip business as a part of a broad restructuring of the conglomerates known as chaebols. That chip business became SK Hynix Inc., the world's second-largest memory chip maker after Samsung.
When word was circulating last year that LG Electronics would introduce an "industry first" curved-screen smartphone in the fourth quarter, Samsung surprised the market at a media event in September 2013 with news of its own curved-screen phone. Samsung launched its Galaxy Round smartphone the following month exclusively in South Korea.
LG launched its LG G Flex in November, and rolled it out in global markets. Sales figures haven't been disclosed for either of the curved-screen phones.
Following LG's successful G3 phone launch this year, Samsung responded in September with a new phablet, dubbed the Galaxy Note Edge, with a screen that wraps over one edge to display messages.
"It comes down to what kind of benefits our product can provide to customers, because we can't earn money without customer satisfaction," said Chris Yie, vice president for marketing at LG's mobile unit. Mr. Yie said LG is preparing to counter Samsung's Galaxy Note Edge, without going into specific details.
The two companies appear to have selected their next battleground: A team of LG Display engineers is working to bring flexible screens that can fold in half for smartphones, while Samsung Display aims to start production at its flexible-display production line early next year.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141028eaat0000q
Tech
Xiaomi Defends Its Smartphone Business Model; Markets Chosen to Fit Low-Cost Approach, Hugo Barra Says
By Daisuke Wakabayashi 
678 words
28 October 2014
09:32
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. said its international expansion plans are dictated by choosing markets where its low-cost business model will work well and not by avoiding areas of potential intellectual-property-litigation risk sweeping across the smartphone industry.
Speaking at the WSJD Live Global Technology Conference, Hugo Barra, Xiaomi¡¦s global vice president, said it looks for markets where the price of a smartphone constitutes a large part of a consumer¡¦s income. Those markets, Mr. Barra said, are where Xiaomi¡¦s model of selling smartphones at near cost works especially well.
Xiaomi passed Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. to become the best-selling smartphone provider in China in the second quarter, according to Canalys, a research firm. It has moved into India, Indonesia and other parts of Asia. Mr. Barra said the company is looking at a move into Brazil and Mexico next.
Xiaomi has taken the Chinese smartphone market by storm. It offers its phones at rock-bottom prices, often selling out new models online in minutes. It makes money by charging for services and accessories that accompany the phones. It also relies on a legion of loyal fans to test new features and drum up enthusiasm for the company.
But for all of Xiaomi¡¦s successes, rivals and critics have said the company would face patent infringements if it expanded to the U.S. or Europe because it doesn¡¦t have enough intellectual property to strike cross-licensing patent deals with other smartphone manufacturers.
¡§Our situation when it comes to patents is the same as everyone else,¡¨ said Mr. Barra, noting that his company files for a significant number of patents in China and strikes licensing deals abroad. Litigation risk ¡§is not a determining factor¡¨ in deciding the best markets for Xiaomi¡¦s international expansion, he said.
The issue came to prominence earlier this month when Jony Ive, Apple¡¦s senior vice president of design, was asked about Xiaomi and how some smartphone designs seem to resemble the iPhone. Without mentioning Xiaomi specifically, the usually soft-spoken Mr. Ive said it was ¡§theft¡¨ and called it ¡§lazy.¡¨
Mr. Barra said there is no such thing as a completely unique design language in the smartphone industry, noting that Apple¡¦s iPhone 6 takes a chapter from designs by Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. He says that what Apple does is no different than what Xiaomi does. ¡§This idea of building upon great ideas and putting a twist on it is what we do,¡¨ he said.
An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.
Xiaomi¡¦s smartphones run on a version of Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system. Xiaomi is sometimes called ¡§the Apple of China¡¨ for the excitement it generates among consumers. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in the past year and it is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year.
The company poses a threat to other smartphone manufacturers because of its willingness to accept low margins on hardware to make money elsewhere. For example, Xiaomi¡¦s popular Redmi phone is about a quarter of the price of the iPhone 6, which sells for more than $800 in China.
¡§We fundamentally believe that innovation is not a luxury item. Innovation is for everyone,¡¨ said Mr. Barra. ¡§We fundamentally believe that when it costs you $200 to make something, you shouldn¡¦t sell it for $600.¡¨
Mr. Barra reiterated that the company has been moving data belonging to international users to servers outside China¡Xin Singapore and North America¡Xin an effort to assuage users¡¦ concerns about privacy. He said the decision to migrate servers outside of China was driven partially by a desire to improve performance by reducing network outages and latency, but he said users like to have data close.
¡§It makes people feel better that they have data next to them,¡¨ Mr. Barra said.
¡§Chinese companies are held to a higher standard than other companies out there.¡¨
Document WSJO000020141028eaas005pl
 Next Up at LG: Post-It TVs, Foldable Smartphones And More
WSJ Blogs, 15:44, 28 October 2014, 652 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
As Apple and Samsung Electronics busy themselves in introducing new mobile devices to show off their cool, display makers are bent over developing screens that will be used in next-generation devices.
Document WCWSJB0020141029eaas0005l
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as QE Sun Sets
MoneyBeat, 28 October 2014, 832 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141028eaas000jl
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as QE Sun Sets
WSJ Blogs, 17:31, 28 October 2014, 797 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 up 1.2% at 1985.05. DJIA up 1.1% at 17005.75. Nasdaq Comp up 1.75% at 4564.29. Treasury yields rose; 10-year at 2.284%. Nymex crude oil up 0.5% at $81.42. Gold up 0.01% at $1,229.20/ounce.
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas006sh
Alevo pulls back the curtain on its batteries for the grid
443 words
28 October 2014
13:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 28 (Reuters) - Alevo Group, which has kept its energy storage technology secret for a decade, unveiled it on Tuesday, and said it has struck deals aimed at deploying its batteries in power grids in China and Turkey.
Aleveo 's chief executive, Norwegian entrepreneur Jostein Eikeland, made the announcement in front of 500 people at a North Carolina factory it bought earlier this year.
The company's batteries would store excess electricity generated by power plants.
Alevo said it has $1 billion in funding from anonymous Swiss investors and has accepted no government incentives. It plans to hire 2,500 people within three years.
The Martigny, Switzerland-based company has yet to sign up any U.S. customers but said on Tuesday that it has reached a deal with China-ZK International Energy Investment Co Ltd, which will promote and commercialize Alevo's energy storage systems in China.
Alevo has also formed a joint venture with Washington-based international construction and project management firm The Sandi Group and Turkish infrastructure service provider RBM to deploy its batteries in Turkey.
Eikeland had kept Alevo's technology secret for more than a decade. Onstage at Tuesday's event, he opened a curtain to reveal a storage container filled with lithium iron phosphate Alevo batteries.
The company calls the containers GridBanks, meaning they can "deposit electrons and take them out when we need it," Eikeland said.
Alevo said its batteries are better than anything else on the market because they last longer and contain an inorganic electrolyte that reduces the risk of burning. The company is offering a 20-year warranty on its batteries.
Alevo has teamed up with manufacturer Parker Hannifin Corp , which developed the power conversion systems for the GridBanks.
Grid storage has become critical as more renewable energy - such as solar power or wind power - is introduced into the world electricity supply. Batteries can store power generated during windy nights to use during the day when the wind may not be blowing, or can extend solar power into the hours after the sun goes down.
But the technologies needed to store large amounts of power are too expensive to deploy on a massive scale. Alevo says it will change that because its batteries can be charged and discharged four times as much as rival technologies.
Alevo's products will compete with those of established manufacturers like Samsung and France's Saft Groupe SA as well as a handful of privately held startups like Enervault and Primus Power. (Reporting By Nichola Groom; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) 
Released: 2014-10-28T19:50:03.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas00l02
UPDATE 1-Smartphone launches boost Gorilla glass maker Corning
369 words
28 October 2014
09:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds executive comments, details, estimates, shares)
By Abhirup Roy
Oct 28 (Reuters) - Corning Inc, the supplier of Gorilla glass to Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics , reported higher-than-expected quarterly revenue and earnings, helped by launches of new smartphone models.
Shares of the company, which also supplies LCD panels to consumer electronics companies such as Sony Corp, LG and Lenovo Group, rose 1.6 percent in early trading.
Smartphones such as Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and Samsung's Galaxy Alpha were launched in the quarter ended Sept. 30. Corning said it would launch a new version of Gorilla glass on Nov. 20.
The company, however, said fourth-quarter core sales in its speciality materials business, which makes Gorilla glass, were expected to decline by low- to mid-teen digits percent from the third quarter due to the absence of any major new launches.
"What happens after a new launch is at some point, they take enough glass to continue to build out their products and that's why we think that in the fourth quarter, we'll see sales down," Senior Vice President Tony Tripeny told Reuters.
Its LCD panel volumes in the current quarter are expected to be flat or fall slightly from the previous quarter as most of the holiday season orders had been shipped in the third quarter, Tripeny said.
Corning had been hurt by falling LCD glass prices in the past few quarters, but the company said the pace of the price decline was moderating.
The company's core net sales rose to $2.65 billion in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 from $2.1 billion, a year earlier.
Net income rose to $1.01 billion, or 72 cents per share, from $408 million, or 28 cents per share.
The company reported core earnings of 40 cents per share.
Analysts on average had expected an adjusted profit of 37 cents per share and revenue of $2.63 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Corning shares were up 1 percent at $19.04 on the New York Stock Exchange. (Editing by Kirti Pandey) 
Released: 2014-10-28T15:12:56.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas00eia
 The Morning Download: A Lowe¡¦s Robot Aims to Cut ¡¥Friction¡¦ From Big-Box Shopping
CIO Report, 07:05, 28 October 2014, 2457 words, By Tom Loftus, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141028eaas0005l
Asia Naphtha/Gasoline-Naphtha crack recovers from 27-month low
657 words
28 October 2014
07:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SINGAPORE, Oct 28 (Reuters) - The Asian naphtha crack rose
slightly from a 27-month low on Tuesday to $59.18 a tonne, with
a lower Brent price and spot demand giving a temporary lift to
an over-supplied market, traders said.
    South Korea's Samsung Total bought a full-range naphtha
cargo for first-half December delivery at a discount wider than
$13 a tonne to Japan quotes on a cost-and-freight (C&F) basis,
they said. 
    The steep discounts reflected the level of oversupply in
Asia, where prices are rarely in the negative zone because the
region is usually short of the feedstock. 
    This changed in August after the West, including Europe and
the Mediterranean lined up a massive amount of cargoes to be
shipped to the East. 
    The situation could deteriorate further for sellers, traders
said, as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) is expanding its Ruwais
refinery which is due to be completed soon. UAE's naphtha
exports are expected to increase. 
    The weak market has weighed on sellers all over Asia.
    Bangladesh Petroleum Corp (BPC) offered 170,000 barrels for
Nov. 27-29 loading from Chittagong for the second time after
receiving low bids in its earlier offer, said a BPC official. 
    The new tender will close on Nov. 17, with bids to stay
valid until Nov. 17. 
    
    TENDERS: Thailand's IRPC offered 30,000 tonnes of heavy
naphtha for Dec. 5-28 loading from Rayong in a tender closing on
Oct. 31. 
    India's Essar Oil offered 35,000 tonnes of naphtha for Nov.
23-27 loading from Vadinar in a tender closing on Oct. 30. 
    Egypt, which has a quarterly contract ending December with
Total, has offered similar volumes but for Dec. 22-24 loading
from Suez in a tender closing on Nov. 10. 
    Indonesia's Pertamina was seeking 100,000 barrels of
92-octane gasoline for Nov. 8-10 delivery to Tanjung Gerem and
another 100,000 barrels for Nov. 13-15 arrival at Jakarta in a
tender closing on Oct. 30. 
    SINGAPORE CASH DEALS: One deal each on naphtha and gasoline.
    Vitol sold to PTT a 92-octane gasoline cargo for Nov. 23-27
loading from Singapore at a premium of $1.40 a barrel to
Singapore quotes on a free-on-board (FOB) basis. 
    Vitol, on the other hand, bought a first-half January
naphtha cargo from Sietco at $711 a tonne. 
    
 CASH ($/T)                        ASIA CLOSE        Change   % Change   Prev    RIC
                                                                         Close   
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M1                    702.00    -1.00      -0.14  703.00  <NAF-1H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha CFR Japan M2                    711.00    -1.00      -0.14  712.00  <NAF-2H-TYO>
 OSN Naphtha Diff                             -9.00     0.00       0.00   -9.00  <NAF-TYO-DIF>
 Naphtha Netback FOB Sing                     75.87    -0.13      -0.17   76.00  <NAF-SIN>
 Naphtha Diff FOB Sing                        -1.48    -0.03       2.07   -1.45  <NAF-SIN-DIF>
 Naphtha-Brent  Crack                         59.18     0.95       1.63   58.23  <NAF-SIN-CRK>
 Gasoline 97                                  98.30    -0.15      -0.15   98.45  <GL97-SIN>
 Gasoline 95                                  97.40    -0.30      -0.31   97.70  <GL95-SIN>
 Gasoline 92                                  94.65    -0.20      -0.21   94.85  <GL92-SIN>
 Gasoline crack                                8.94     0.06       0.68    8.88  <GL92-SIN-CRK>
                                                                                                
 For a list of derivatives prices, including margins, please double                             
 click the RICs below.                                                           
 Brent M1                                                                                       
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1                                                                           
 Naphtha CFR Japan M1/M2                                                                        
 Naphtha CFR Japan M2                                                                           
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M1                                                                  
 Naphtha Japan-Sing Netback M2                                                                  
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1                                                                            
 Naphtha FOB Sing M1/M2                                                                         
 Naphtha FOB Sing M2                                                                            
 Naphtha Cracks M1                                                                              
 East-West Naphtha M1                                                                           
 East-West Naphtha M2                                                                           
 NWE Naphtha M1                                                                                 
 NWE Naphtha M1/M2                                                                              
 NWE Naphtha M2                                                                                 
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M1                                                                     
 Crack NWE Naphtha-Brent M2                                                                     
 *Sing refers to Singapore                                                                      
    
    
 (Editing by Jane Merriman)
Released: 2014-10-28T13:42:57.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas00bv7
 Apple¡¦s Next Chapter: A Q&A With Tim Cook ¡V Recap
WSJ Blogs, 01:39, 28 October 2014, 2007 words, (English)
Apple CEO Tim Cook took the stage at the?WSJD Live conference?for a conversation with?Journal editor in chief?Gerard Baker about Apple's future.
More:
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar0048u
Speciality glass maker Corning's quarterly net sales rise 23 pct
124 words
28 October 2014
06:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 28 (Reuters) - Speciality glass maker Corning Inc reported a 23 percent rise in quarterly net sales, helped by higher demand for its glass used in TVs and smartphones.
The company supplies glass for Apple Inc's iPhones and Samsung Electronics' Galaxy devices, and makes LCD panels for Sony Corp, LG and Lenovo Group , among others.
Corning said net sales rose to $2.54 billion in the third quarter from $2.07 billion, a year earlier.
Net income rose to $1.01 billion, or 72 cents per share, from $408 million, or 28 cents per share. (Reporting by Abhirup Roy in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) 
Released: 2014-10-28T12:36:06.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas00aro
Asia Naphtha Tender Summary-Essar, Egypt offer cargoes
9,515 words
28 October 2014
06:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds Essar, EGPC)
     For other tenders on other oil products please click:
 Gasoline...  Jet/Diesel...  Fuel oil.. 
 OUTSTANDING ASIA/MIDEAST NAPHTHA TENDERS:
 ISSUER              VOL               DATE        CLOSE  (VALID)
 *EGPC/Suez          35KT              Dec 22-24   Nov 10 (Nov 21) 
 *Essar/Vadinar      35KT              Nov 23-27   Oct 30 (Oct 30)
 ONGC/Hazira         34.5KT            Nov 15-16   Oct 29 (Oct 30)
 MRPL/New Mangalore  55KT              Dec 1-3     Oct 29 (Oct 30)  
 ONGC/Kakinada       4.2KT             Nov 12-16   Oct 28 (Oct 28)
 
 Note: Tenders are sell tenders unless otherwise indicated.
 RECENT SALES TENDER AWARDED:     
 COUNTRY/COMPANY            VOL        LOADING      BUYER/SELLER/PRICE 
 Middle East
 Aden/Yemen  (heavy/light)  25KT/25KT  Aug 28-30    NA
 Aden/Yemen  (heavy/light)  25KT/25KT  July 28-30   Vitol/ave ME+$30 to +$32
 Aden/Yemen  (heavy/light)  25KT/25KT  June 3-4     Vitol/ave ME+$31
 
 ADNOC/UAE (Ruwais)  25KT or 50KT      Oct 29-31     NA
 ADNOC/UAE (low-sulphur)    50KT       Late Sept     YNCC/Formula about $10
 ADNOC/UAE (paraffinic)     50KT       Sept 21-22    Total/Formula $11-$12
 ADNOC/UAE                  50KT       Sept 1-8      NA
 ADNOC/UAE                  50KT       H2 June 2014  NA
 
 Bapco/Bahrain           25KT-30KT     Sept 24-27    NA
 Bapco/Bahrain              75KT       Sept. 16-19   NA/ME+$29 to +$30
 Bapco/Bahrain              50KT       Aug 20-23     NA/ME+high $20s
 Bapco/Bahrain              75KT       mid August    Aramco/ME+$30 
 Bapco/Bahrain              50KT       late July     NA
 Bapco/Bahrain              50KT       H2 April 2014 Chevron/ME+$29 
 EGPC/Suez  (Q4 2014) 35KTx4 Oct-Dec        Total/ME+$5 to +$7
 EGPC/Suez  (Q3 2014) 35KTx3 July-Sept      Unipec/Glencore
 EGPC/Suez  (Q2 2014) 35KTx4 April-June     Unipec/above ME+$20
 EGPC/Suez  (Q1 2014) 35KTx4 Feb-March      Gunvor/Vitol/Itochu
                                           /ME+$19 to +$23
 
 *KPC/Kuwait             NA         Mid Nov       NA/discount
 KPC/Kuwait              NA         H1 Nov        Trafigura+Shell/ME+$2
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       25KT       Aug 27-28     Vitol/ME+$6.00
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       Sept 20-30    NA/ME+$12
 KPC/Kuwait  (light+frn) 24KT+50KT  H2 Sept       Aramco/ME+$15 to +$16
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       25KT       Aug 8-9       Vitol/NA  
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)     28KT       Aug 15-16     NA
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)     24KT       July 24-25    Aramco/ME+low $30s
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       July 25-26    Aramco/ME+low $30s
 KPC/Kuwait              25KT       June 14-15    Idemitsu/ME+$34
 KPC/Kuwait              25KT       June 14-15    Total/ME+$low $30s
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)     24KT       June 9-10     Trafigura/ME+$45
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       25KT       May 3-4       Vitol/ME+$32
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       25KT       May 5-6       Vitol/ME+$32
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       April 22-23   Shell/ME+$32
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)     24KT       End March     Vitol/NA
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       March 20-22   NA
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       Feb 1-2 2014  NA/over ME+$35
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)     24KT       H2 Jan  2014  Vitol/ME+$30s
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)       50KT       Jan 8-9 2014  Shell/ME+$33
 
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan   NA at least 25KT End Oct         BP/ME+$6.75
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn+pcn) 75KT    Early October   Oil major/ME+$2.00
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (pcn)     50KT    Late July 2014  Aramco/ME+$26 
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn)     50KT    Late July 2014  Vitol/NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn)     50KT    Late April 2014 NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (GTL)     25KT    Late April 2014 NA
(Tasweeq cargoes are lifting from Ras Laffan unless otherwise stated)
 
 RUSSIA 
 Rosneft/Vostochny         30KTx3    October         Vitol/parity
     
 # Note for pricing terms:
 - JP : Japan spot quotes
 - ME : Middle East Gulf quotes, or the mean of Platts Arabian Gulf quotes
 - SG : Singapore quotes, or the mean of Platts Singapore spot quotes
 - Fomula: Platts&Argus is the average of Platts and Argus Middle East quotes,
   which is Indian Oil Corp's pricing formula    
 - Med is for Mediterranean quotes    
 - pc stands for plant condensate
 
 Bangladesh: 
 BPC/Chittagong     170KB      July 14-16      Socar/SG-$0.62
  
 INDIAN NAPHTHA EXPORTS SUMMARY
 NOVEMBER 2014
 *IOC/Chennai           35KT          Nov 1-3    Petro-Diamond/Formula-$2.50
 *BPCL/Kochi            35KT          Nov 16-18  Petro-Diamond/ME+$0.50to+$0.60
 Essar Oil/Vadinar      35KT (65pct)  Nov 4-8    Petro-Diamond/ME+$2
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT          Nov 6-7    Total/about ME+$5   
 ONGC/Mumbai            35KT          Nov 6-7    Cargill/ME-$3
 ONGC/Kakinada          4.2KT         Nov 10-14  Cancelled
 MRPL/New Mangalore     50KT          Nov 22-24  Mercuria/ME+$1.00
 HPCL/Mumbai          25KT-30KT       Nov 4-7    NA
                   or 30KT-35KT       Nov 12-15 
 Reliance/Sikka       55KT-75KT       Nov 3-7    Major/under ME+$6
 --------------------------------------------------------------------  
    Total              280KT-300KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------------      
 OCTOBER 2014
 *BPCL/Mumbai                35KT   Late Oct    Petro-Diamond/ME+$3 to +$4
 BPCL/Mumbai (Oct-Dec term)  35KT   Oct         Vitol/Formula-$5
 BPCL/Mumbai + Kochi    35KT+20KT   Oct 10-12   Marubeni/ME+low single
 BPCL/Haldia                 12KT   Oct         Daewoo/ME-$35
 BPCL/Haldia              7KT/5KT   Oct 10-16   Cancelled
 HPCL/Vizag             25KT-30KT   Oct 17-19   Socar/ME+$3 to +$4
 HPCL/Vizag             25KT-30KT   Oct 3-5     Daewoo/ME+$3 to +$4
 Essar/Vadinar               35KT   Oct 20-24   PetroChina/ME+$4 to +$5   
 ONGC/Mumbai                 35KT   Oct 17-18   Total/ME+$2 to +$3
 ONGC/Hazira                 20KT   Oct 2-3     Trafigura/ME+$2
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT   Oct 28-30   Shell/ME+$11
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT   Oct 13-15   Itochu/ME+$16
 Reliance/Sikka              75KT   End Oct     BP/ME+$11
 Reliance/Sikka              75KT   H1 Oct      NA/ME+$10 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                   527KT-537KT                      
 ---------------------------------------------------------------        
 
 SEPTEMBER 2014
 IOC/Chennai                 35KT  Sept 24-26  Vitol/Formula+$4
 Essar/Vadinar  35KT or 10KT/25KT  Sept 25-29  Socar/ME+$6.50
 Essar/Vadinar               35KT  Sept 12-16  NA 
 ONGC/Mumbai                 35KT  Sept 22-23  Shell/ME+$7.00
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  Sept 24-25  Shell/ME+$15
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  Sept 5-6    Gunvor/ME+$14.50
 HPCL/Vizag            25KT-30KT   Sept 15-19  Vitol/ME+$17
 HPCL/Mumbai           under 30KT  Sept 8-12   Total/single digit premium
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT  Sept 22-24  Mercuria/ME+$19
 BPCL/Mumbai                 35KT  Sept 12-18  Marubeni/ME+$12
 BPCL/Haldia              7KT/5KT  Sept 19-25  Cancelled
 BPCL/Mumbai                 35KT  mid-Sept    Cancelled
 BPCL/Kochi  (July-Oct term) 35KT  Sept        Unipec/Formula+$1.00
 BPCL/Mumbai (July-Sep term) 38KT  Sept 1-12   Idemitsu/Formula+$1.50    
 Reliance/Sikka              55KT  H2 Sept     Hanwha/ME+$12.00
 Reliance/Sikka              35KT  mid-Sept    NA/ME+$14.00
 Reliance/Sikka              35KT  Sept 12-16  Major/ME+$15.00
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                    513KT-518KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   
 AUGUST 2014
 HPCL/Vizag             20KT+10KT  Aug 26-28    Socar/ME+$14
 HPCL/Vizag             25KT-30KT  Aug 6-8      Vitol/ME+high $20s
 HPCL/Mumbai            25KT-30KT  Aug 12-13    PetroChina/ME+high $20s
 IOC/Dahej              35KT-40KT  Aug 14-16    Vitol/Formula +low $20s
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  Aug 23-24    Unipec/close ME+$23
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  Aug 9-10     Vitol/ME+$31
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  Aug 9-10     Cancelled
 ONGC/Mumbai                 35KT  Aug 15-16    Vitol/ME+$31
 Reliance/Sikka              75KT  Aug 15-20    Major/ME+high$20s
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT  Aug 23-25    Marubeni/ME+$24
 BPCL/Haldia              7KT/5KT  Aug 27-Sep 4 Cancelled
 BPCL/Kochi  (July-Oct term) 35KT  Aug          Unipec/Formula+$1.00
 BPCL/Mumbai (July-Sep term) 38KT  Aug 1-12     Idemitsu/Formula+$1.50 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                    418KT-433KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
          
 JULY 2014
 HPCL/Mumbai            15KT-20KT  July 25-30   Itochu/ME+$17
 HPCL                   15KT-20KT  July 5-10    NA
 IOC/Chennai                 35KT  July 10-12   Itochu/Formula+$28.50
 ONGC/Mumbai                 35KT  July 12-13   Total/ME+$27
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  July 20-21   Mercuria/ME+low $20s
 ONGC/Hazira                 35KT  July 5-6     Marubeni/about ME+$30
 MRPL/New Mangalore          35KT  July 6-8     Idemitsu/about ME+$35
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT  July 27-29   Cargill/ME+$30
 MRPL/New Mangalore          50KT  July 13-15   Itochu/ME+$37       
 BPCL/Mumbai                 35KT  July 11-13   Shell/ME+$26
 BPCL/Kochi (July-Oct term)  35KT  July         Unipec/Formula+$1.00
 BPCL/Mumbai(July-Sep term)  38KT  July  1-12   Idemitsu/Formula+$1.50   
 Reliance/Sikka              55KT  Late July    NA/ME+low $20s
 Reliance/Sikka              55KT  July 19-23   Statoil/ME+$25
 Reliance/Sikka              55KT  July 5-10    Glencore/ME+$30
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                    563KT-568KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------          
    
 JUNE 2014
 HPCL/Mumbai             15KT-20KT   June 18-20     PetroChina/ME+$20 to +$21
 Reliance/Sikka               55KT   June 22-23     Gunvor/ME+high $20s
 Reliance/Sikka               55KT   from June 24   Vitol/ME+high $20s
 Reliance/Sikka               55KT   June 8-12      Vitol/over ME+$30
 Reliance/Sikka               75KT   June 5-10      Vitol/over ME+$40
 BPCL/Mumbai  10KT or 15KT or 20KT   June 15-16     cancelled
 BPCL/Mumbai                  38KT   June 21-23     PetroChina/ME+$40 to +$41
 BPCL/Bina                    18KT   June 7-11      Oman Trading/ME+high teens
 BPCL/Kochi                   35KT   June 25-30     Unipec/ME+$36 to +$37
 BPCL/Mumbai(April-June term) 38KT   June 12        Idemitsu/Formula+$2.00 
 Essar Oil/Vadinar            35KT   June 24-28     Itochu/ME+$33.50
 ONGC/Hazira                  35KT   June 22-23     Marubeni/ME+$37
 ONGC/Hazira                  35KT   June 7-8       Gunvor/ME+$36.25
 ONGC/Mumbai                  35KT   June 17-18     Oman Trading/ME+$40
 IOC/Chennai                  35KT   June 10-12     Socar/Formula+$40.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore           50KT   June 20-22     Marubeni/ME+$44.00
 HMEL/Mumbai                  25KT   June 7-8       Total/ME+$55
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                    634KT-639KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------       
 
 MAY 2014 
 IOC/Chennai                   35KT   May 15-17   Vitol/Formula+low $40s
 ONGC/Hazira                   35KT   May 24-25   Shell/ME+$37.80
 ONGC/Hazira                   35KT   May 7-8     Gunvor/ME+$30
 ONGC/Mumbai                   35KT   May 5-6     Idemitsu/ME+$41
 MRPL/New Mangalore            35KT   May 14-16   Itochu/ME+$41 to +$42
 MRPL/New Mangalore            35KT   May 9-11    Petro-Diamond/ME+$41
 Reliance/Sikka                35KT   H2 May      European/ME+$29
 Reliance/Sikka                75KT   May 15-20   Major/ME+high$30s
 HPCL/Mumbai                   20KT   May 5-11    Vitol/ME+$20s
 HPCL/Vizag               25KT-30KT   H1 May      Glencore/around ME+$35
 BPCL/Haldia                   10KT   H1 May      Unipec/ME $0.00
 BPCL/Mumbai (April-June deal) 38KT   May 12      Idemitsu/Formula+$2.00 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL                      413KT-418KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------   
 
 APRIL 2014
 Essar Oil/Vadinar         55KT   April 19-23    Vitol/ME+$31
 Essar Oil/Vadinar         35KT   April 4-8      Itochu/ME+$34
 HPCL/Vizag           25KT-30KT   April          Idemitsu/ME+$30s
 HPCL/Vizag           25KT-30KT   April          Vitol/ME+$30s
 Reliance/Sikka            55KT   April 25-30    European/ME+$27 to +$28 
 ONGC/Hazira               35KT   April 16-17    Unipec/ME+$44
 ONGC/Hazira               35KT   April 3-4      Totsa/ME+$41 to +$42
 MRPL/New Mangalore        35KT   April 20-22    Unipec/ME+$42.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore        35KT   April 7-9      Unipec/ME+$38
 MRPL/New Mangalore        35KT   April 2-4      Marubeni/slightly below ME$34
 BPCL/Mumbai (April-June)  38KT   April 12       Idemitsu/Formula+$2.00 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                  408KT-418KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------       
 
 MARCH 2014
 IOC/Chennai          35KT       March 28-30     Unipec/Formua+$38
 IOC/Chennai          35KT       March 13-15     Cargill/Formula+$28
 IOC/Kandla           30KT       March 20-22     Socar/Formula+$24
 Reliance/Sikka       35KT       End March       NA/ME+$25
 Reliance/Sikka       55KT       H1 March        NA/ME+$28
 HMEL/Mumbai          23KT       H2 March        NA
 HMEL/Mumbai          17KT       March 6-7       Glencore/over ME+$50
 BPCL/Mumbai      38KT or 45KT   March 22-24     Itochu/ME+$31 to $32
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       March 16-18     Totsa/ME+24
 Essar/Vadinar        35KT       March 26-30     PTT/ME+$21 to +$23
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       March 19-20     Unipec/ME+$33 
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       March 6-7       BP/slightly below ME+$29
 ONGC/Mumbai          35KT       March 20-21     Vitol/ME+$23
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       March 26-28     BP/ME+$30
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       March 19-21     Marubeni/ME+$28
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Mar 14-16       Shell/ME+$26
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       March 10-12     Marubeni/ME+$35
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total              586KT-593KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
       
 FEBRUARY 2014
 IOC/Chennai          35KT       Feb 16-18      Socar/Formula+$34 to +$35
 Essar/Vadinar        35KT       Feb 25-28      Vitol/ME+$35
 HMEL/Mumbai          23KT       Feb 20-21      Trafigura/low ME+$30s
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Feb 22-23      Gunvor/ME+$28
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Feb 18-19      Cancelled
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Feb 5-6        Vitol/ME+$31
 ONGC/Mumbai          35KT       Feb 6-7        Petro-Diamond/ME+$37
 ONGC/Vizag           8.5KT      Feb 5-20       Unipec/ME-$2.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Feb 26-28      Marubeni/ME+$36.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Feb 16-18      Unipec/ME+$35
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Feb 6-8        Vitol/ME+$41
 BORL/Mumbai          18KT       Feb 3-7        Oman Trading/ME+$24
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Feb 14-16      Vitol/ME+$30
 Reliance/Sikka       55KT       Feb 24-25      Shell/high ME+$20s
 Reliance/Sikka       55KT       Feb 15-16      European/ME+$33
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Total              512.5KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
    
 January 2014
 HMEL/Mumbai          23KT       Jan 28-29      Vitol/ME+$23 to +$24   
 HMEL/Mumbai          23KT       Jan 10-11      Total/ME+$23
 HPCL/Mumbai       up to 25KT    Late Jan       Unipec/Low ME+$30s
 IOC/Dahej            35KT       Jan 23-25      Marubeni/slightly over ME+$32
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Jan 24-25      Idemitsu/ME+low $40s
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Jan 11-12      Marubeni/ME+ mid $30s
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Jan 26-28      Idemitsu/ME+low $40s
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Jan 16-18      Marubeni/ME+$41.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Jan 7-9        Unipec/ME+$36
 Reliance/Sikka       35KT       End Jan        Shell/ME+$31
 Reliance/Sikka       75KT       Jan 15-20      Vitol/ME+37 
 BPCL/Haldia          11KT       Jan 16-20      Unipec/ME-$4 to -$5
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Jan 27-29      Itochu/ME+low $30s   
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Jan 18-20      Vitol/ME+$35 
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Jan 7-9        Revised loading dates 
 Essar Oil/Vadinar    35KT       Early Jan      Mercuria/NA
 Essar Oil/Vadinar    50KT-55KT  Late Jan       Itochu/ME+$40 
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total              563KT-568KT
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 2013
 Middle East 2013
 Aden/Yemen (light+Heavy) 25KT+25KT  Nov 23-25      NA
 Aden/Yemen               55KT       Oct 8          Lukoil/low ME+$20s
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      28KT-30KT  Sept 10-12     Glencore/low ME+$20s
 Aden/Yemen  (heavy)      20KT-22KT  Sept 10-12     Glencore/low ME+$20s
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      28KT-30KT  from July 25   Glencore/ME+$16 to +$18
 Aden/Yemen  (light/N+A)  25KT/15KT  June 12-14     Glencore/ME+$37 to +$39
 Aden/Yemen  (light/N+A)  20KT/20KT  May 6-8        Vitol/ME+$30s
 Aden/Yemen  (light/N+A)  NA         April          Vitol/ME+$40s 
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      30KT       March 17-19    Vitol/ME+$50-$52
             (N+A)        20KT       March 17-19    Vitol/ME+$50-$52
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      30KT-35KT  March 2-4      Trafigura/ME+high $40s
 Aden/Yemen  (N+A)        20KT-25KT  March 2-4      Trafigura/ME+high $40s
 Aden/Yemen  (N+A)        10KT-15KT  Feb 4-6        Vitol/ME+high$30s
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      20KT-25KT  Feb 4-6        Vitol/ME+high$30s
 Aden/Yemen  (N+A)        20KT-25KT  Jan 12-14      Vitol/ME+$35
 Aden/Yemen  (light)      20KT-25KT  Jan 12-14      Vitol/ME+$35
 
 ADGAS/UAE                25KT       Aug 20-22      Marubeni/Formula+$25-$26
 ADNOC/UAE                75KT       H2 Aug 2013    Vitol/Formula+$27   
 
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       end Nov        Vitol/ME+$$33
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       Oct 17-20      Itochu/ME+$27 to +$28  
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       Sept 27-30     NA
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       Sept 24-27     Cancelled
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       H2 May         NA/ME+$40      
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       March 22-23    NA/ME+low $40s
 Bapco/Bahrain            50KT       Feb 10-13 2013 Vitol/ME+$40
 
 EGPC/Suez (Q4 2013)      35KTx3     Oct-December  Gunvor/ME+high teens
 EGPC/Suez (Q4 2013)      35KTx2     October       Total/ME+high teens
 EGPC/Suez (Q4 2013)      35KTx2     December      Socar/ME+$high teens
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        50KT       Dec 3-4       Glencore/over ME+$38
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        25KT       Dec 5-6       Glencore/over ME+$38
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      30KT       Nov 16-17     Vitol/ME+$33 to +$34
 KPC/Kuwait  (FRN)        50KT       Nov 17-18     Vitol/ME+$33 to +$34
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       H2 Oct        NA/ME+$27 to +$28
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Sept 29-30    NA/ME+$24
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        55KT       H2 Sept       Itochu/about ME+$20
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Sept 14-15    Vitol/average ME+$23
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        50KT       Sept 16-21    Vitol/average ME+$23 
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Sept 2-3      Shell/ME+$23 to +$25
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        50KT       Sept 4-5      Shell/ME+$23 to +$25 
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Aug 27-28     Japanese/ME+low$20s
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        25KT       Aug 23-24     Japanese/ME+low$20s
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn+light) 50KT+24KT   Aug 14-22     Shell/ME+hight $20s
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       end July      Vitol/ME+high $20s  
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        25KT       July 1-3      did not award
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       June 29-30    Itochu/below ME+$31-$33
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       end May       Glencore/ME+$45   
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        50KT       May 19-20     Total/ME+mid-high $20s 
 KPC/Kuwait  (cancelled)  50KT       May 19-20     Haldia Petchem/ME+$35
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       May 1-2       Vitol/NA
 KPC/Kuwait  (frn)        50KT       April 20-30   Vitol/ME+$35
 KPC/Kuwait  (Q2 term)    24KT       June          ME+$40s
             (light)      24KT       May           ME+$40s
             (light)      24KT       April 27-38   ME+$40s 
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Feb 2013      Glencore/ME+$41-$43 
 KPC/Kuwait  (light)      24KT       Jan 29-31 '13 Marubeni/aboveME+$42
 
 Saudi Aramco/Jubail      50KT       Jan 26 2013   YNCC/ME+$36-$39
 Saudi Aramco/Jubail      55KT-75KT  Jan 2013      Arcadia/ME+$40s
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (pc)    50KT         Sept 5-10 2013  NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (pc)    50KT/25KT    Aug 5-10        NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn+pc)50KT+25KT    Aug 20-25       NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn)   50KT         end June 2013   NA/ME+$30       
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (frn)   360KT-600KT  Jan-Dec 2013    NA
 Tasweeq/Ras Laffan  (pc)    360KT-600KT  Jan-Dec 2013    NA
 
 RUSSIA
 Rosneft/Nakhodka           33KT      Aug 20-25 2013  JX Nippon/JP+$11 to +$12  
 
 INDIA 2013 
 December 2013
 IOC/Dahej             35KT       Dec 24-26      Itochu/Formula+$30
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Dec 30-31      Unipec/ME+$34
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Dec 16-17      Total/ME+$29
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Dec 2-3        Marubeni/ME+$38
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT       Dec 20-21      Total/ME+$26 
 HPCL/Mumbai           20KT       Dec 17-19      Mercuria/ME+$18
 Reliance/Sikka        35KT       Dec 26-30      Gunvor/ME+$23
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT       Dec 20-25      NA/ME+low$30s     
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT       Dec 20-25      NA/ME+low$30s
 Reliance/Sikka        75KT       Dec 10-15      Glencore/ME+$40
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT       Dec 22-26      Unipec/ME-$5 to -$6
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT       H1 Dec         Vitol/ME-$5.00
 BPCL/Mumbai           38KT       Dec 14-16      Marubeni/ME+$38
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Dec 28-30      Idemitsu/ME+low$30s
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Dec 5-7        Marubeni/ME+$26
 HMEL/Mumbai           23KT       Dec 9-10       Gunvor/NA
  
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                 568KT    
 ----------------------------------------------------------------               
 November 2013 
 HMEL/Mumbai          23KT End Nov to early Dec Cancelled 
 HMEL/Mumbai          25KT       Nov 6-7        Gunvor/ME+$high 20s
 Essar Oil/Vadinar    35KT       H1 Nov         Mercuria/ME+$20s
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Nov 23-25      Itochu/ME+$23
 BPCL/Mumbai          38KT       Nov 13-15      Cancelled
 BPCL/Haldia          11KT       Nov 15-19      Shell/ME flat
 BPCL/Kochi           25KT-35KT  Nov 11-13      Unipec/ME+$27 to +$28 
 IOC/Dahej            35KT-40KT  Nov 12-14      Glencore/Formula+$21
 IOC/Kandla           30KT       Nov 7-9        BP/NA
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Nov 20-21      Itochu/ME+$26
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT       Nov 6-7        Unipec/ME+$23
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Nov 19-21      Itochu/ME+$20
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT       Nov 3-5        Marubeni/slightly over ME+$17
 Reliance/Sikka    16KT+36KT     End Nov        Mercuria/ave ME+$30
 Reliance/Sikka       75KT       Nov 21-25      Shell/ME+$28 
 Reliance/Sikka       55KT       H1 Nov         Glencore/ME+16
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total             521KT-536KT 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------    
          
 October 2013
 BPCL/Kochi               26KT     Oct 31-Nov 2 PetroChina/ME+$15
 BPCL (Bina)/Mumbai       18KT     Oct 11-15    Oman Trading/ME+$32
 BPCL/Mumbai              38KT     Oct 20-22    Cancelled
 BPCL/Mumbai              38KT     Oct 29-31    Marubeni/ME+$20
 BPCL/Mumbai              38KT     Oct 11-13    Mitsubishi/ME+$25
 BPCL/Haldia (LAN)        11KT     Oct 6-10     Glencore/ME-$5
 ONGC/Mumbai              35KT     Oct 28-29    Shell/ME+$12.50 
 ONGC/Hazira              35KT     Oct 26-27    Gunvor/ME+$17
 ONGC/Hazira              35KT     Oct 14-15    Marubeni/ME+$25
 ONGC/Hazira              35KT     Oct 1-2      Unipec/ME+$22 to +$23
 Reliance/Sikka           55KT     End Oct      Glencore/ME+$15-17
 Reliance/Sikka           55KT     H1 Oct       European/ME+$24 to +$25
 Reliance/Sikka           55KT     H1 Oct       Itochu/ME+low$20s
 HPCL/Vizag            25KT-30KT   Oct 1-3      Total/ME+low$20s
 MRPL/New Mangalore       35KT     Oct 17-19    Marubeni/ME+$27.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore       35KT     Oct 8-10     Petrodiamond/ME+$29
 MRPL/New Mangalore       35KT     Oct 1-3      Idemitsu/ME+$26
 IOC/Dahej                35KT     Early Oct    Vitol/NA
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                 601KT-611KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                 
 September 2013
 BPCL/Haldia               11KT     Sept 20-Oct 5  Glencore/ME+$5
 IOC/Dahej                 35KT     Sept 25-27     Vitol/Formula+$19.20 
 IOC/Chennai               35KT     Sept 26-28     Itochu/Formula+$25-$26
 IOC/Chennai               35KT     Sept 9-11      Vitol/Formula+$20.45
 IOC/Chennai               35KT     Sept 3-5       Unipec/Formula+$28.50
 IOC/New Mangalore (BUY)   14KTx3   Sept-Nov       ENOC/Formula+$56 C&F
 Essar/Vadinar             20KT     Sept 25-29     Cancelled
 Essar Oil/Vadinar         35KT     Sept 16-20     Idemitsu/ME+$20 to +$21
 Essar/Vadinar             35KT     Sept 6-10      Unipec/ME+$23.00
 Reliance/Sikka            55KT     End Sept       Shell/ME+$17 to +$18
 Reliance/Sikka            55KT     H2 Sept        Vitol/ME+$18
 Reliance/Sikka            55KT     Sept 7-11      Socar/ME+$24
 BPCL/Kochi             25KT-35KT   Sept 23-25     Cancelled
 BPCL/Kochi             25KT-35KT   Sept 6-8       Vitol/ME+$22
 BPCL/Haldia               11KT     Sept 20-24     Cancelled 
 BPCL/Mumbai               38KT     Sept 23-25     Marubeni/ME+$22.00
 BPCL/Mumbai               38KT     Sept 12-14     BP/ME+$23-$24 
 MRPL/New Mangalore (70 percent parrafin)
                           35KT     Sept 22-24     Shell/ME+$21
 MRPL/New Mangalore        35KT     Sept 11-13     Unipec/ME+$27.00
 MRPL/Mangalore            35KT     Sept 2-4       Unipec/ME+$27
 MRPL/New Mangalore        35KT     Sept 16-18     Petro-Diamond/ME+$27
 ONGC/Mumbai               35KT     Sept 23-24     Shell/ME+$19
 ONGC/Hazira               35KT     Sept 18-19     Unipec/ME+$26
 ONGC/Hazira               35KT     Sept 7-8       Unipec/ME+$24.00
 HPCL/Mumbai               25KT     Sept 4-6       Unipec/ME+$l2 to +$15 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                 757KT-767KT
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 August 2013
 HPCL/Vizag          25KT        Aug 29-31      Vitol/ME+$15 
 BPCL/Haldia         11KT        Aug 25-29      Glencore/MW+$16 to +$17
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT        Aug 8-10       Cargill/slightly above ME+$21
 BPCL/Mumbai+Kochi   35KT+20KT   Aug 25-27      Option not taken
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT        Aug 25-27      Marubeni/ME+$24
 BPCL/Mumbai+Kochi   35KT+20KT   Aug (Q3 deal)  Marubeni/ME+$30s 
 BORL/Mumbai         18KT        Aug 4-12       Oman Trading/ME+$37-$38
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT        Aug 20-22      Unipec/close to ME+22.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT        Aug 12-14      Arcadia/ME+$23
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT        Aug 6-8        Unipec/ME+$26.50
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT        Aug 27-28      Unipec/close to ME+$24.50
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT        Aug 13-14      Unipec/ME+high$20s
 ONGC/Mumbai         35KT        Aug 8-9        Idemitsu/ME+$18
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   35KT        Aug 27-31      Arcadia/ME+$15.00
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   35KT        H1 Aug         Idemitsu/ME+$25
 HMEL/Mumbai         23KT        Aug 23-24      Glencore/ME+$26
 Reliance/Sikka      55KT        Aug 24-28      NA/ME+$19.00
 Reliance/Sikka      55KT        mid-H2 Aug     BP/ME+$25
 IOC/Dahej           35KT        Aug 10-12      PetroChina/NA
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total              633KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------  
       
 July 2013
 HPCL/Mumbai         25KT       July 25-27     STO Maldives/ME+mid teens
 HPCL/Mumbai         25KT       July 18-20     Cancelled
 HMEL/Mumbai         23KT       July 26-27     NA/ME+$30 
 HMEL/Mumbai         20KT       July 10-12     Trafigura/ME+$35
 BPCL/Haldia         11KT       July 21-25     PetroChina/ME+$30-$31
 BPCL/Kochi          35KT       July 21-24     Socar/ME+$27  
 BPCL/Kochi          35KT       July 5-8       Trafigura/ME+$27 to $28
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT       July 13-15     Trafigura/ME+$26 to $27
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT       July (Q3 deal) Total/ME+$30s
 IOC/Chennai         35KT       July 28-30     Unipec/Formula+$28.50
 IOC/Chennai         35KT       July 6-8       Vitol/Formula+$31
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       July 30-31     SK Energy/ME+$25.00
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       July 18-19     Unipec/ME+$28.00
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       July 5-6       Itochu/ME+$18-20
 ONGC/Mumbai         35KT       July 11-12     BP/ME+23
 Essar/Vadinar       35KT       July 20-24     Petro Diamond/ME+$22
 Reliance/Sikka      55KT       July 24-28     Unipec/ME+$22
 Reliance/Sikka      55KT       July 5-10      Vitol/ME+$25 
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       July 28-30     Marubeni/ME+$25-$26
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       July 20-22     Unipec/ME+$28-29
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       July 13-15     BP/ME+$25.5-$27
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       July 6-8       Shell/slightly above ME+$33
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       July 1-3       Shell/ME+$33.00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total               780KT 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 June 2013 
 ONGC/Vizag            3KT-5KT  June 16-July 15 Unipec/NA
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       June 23-24    Marubeni/slightly above ME+$25
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       June 12-13    Mercuria/ME+$28-$29
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT       June 4-5      Shell/ME+$25
 HMEL/Mumbai           20KT       June 24-25    Total/above ME+$48
 HMEL/Mumbai           25KT       June 6-7      Gunvor/ME+$50
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT       June 16-20    Unipec/ME+$10 to $12 
 BPCL/Mumbai           38KT       June 11-13    Unipec/ME+$31
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT       June 28-30    Shell/ME+$28
 BPCL/Mumbai+Kochi   35KT+20KT    June          Marubeni/ME+$30s
 Reliance/Sikka        35KT       June 24-28    Mercuria/ME+$28.50-$29.50
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT       June 8-12     Chevron/ME+$30 
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       June 24-26    Unipec/ME+$31
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       June 13-15    Itochu/ME+$31.00 to +$31.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       June 5-7      Petro-Diamond/ME+$34.50
 Essar Oil/Vadinar     35KT       June 18-22    Shell/over ME+$30
 IOC/Dahej             35KT       June 20-22    STO Maldives/Formula+$22.10
 IOC/Dahej             35KT       H1 June       PetroChina/Formula+$26.30
 IOC/Kandla            30KT       June 3-5      Vitol/ME+$$26 to +$27 
 IOC/Chennai           35KT       June 14-16    Vitol/Formula+$33.70
 IOC/Mangalore  (BUY)  14KT       June 5-9      Trafigura/$72.50 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total             657KT-659KT   
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------   
    
 May 2013
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       May 29-30      Marubeni/ME+$30
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       May 17-18      Idemitsu/ME+$34 
 ONGC/Hazira         35KT       May 5-6        Vitol/ME+$37
 ONGC/Mumbai         35KT       May 2-3        Marubeni/ME+$41.00
 HPCL/Mumbai         20KT-25Kt  May 24-30      Vitol/ME+$16
 HPCL/Vizag          25KT-30KT  May 25-27      Vitol/ME+$30.50
 HMEL/Mumbai         25KT       May 18-22      Glencore/over ME+$35 
 IOC/Kandla          30KT       May 23-25      Total/Formula+mid $20s
 IOC/Kandla          30KT       May 8-10       Vitol/Formula+$36.30
 IOC/Dahej           30K    end May early June Marubeni/Formula+$28.50
 IOC/Dahej           35KT-40KT  May 14-15      Total/Formula+$36.15
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   35KT       May 26-30      Cargill/ME+$27
 Essar/Vadinar       35KT       May 14-18      Marubeni/ME+$28-$29
 BPCL Bina/Mumbai    18KT       May 6-12       Trafigura/ME+$37-$38
 BPCL/Haldia         11KT       May 6-10       Glencore/ME+$21-$22
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT       May 9-11       PetroDiamond/ME+$40-$41
 BPCL/Mumbai         38KT       May 19-21      PetroDiamond/ME+$38-$39
 BPCL/Kochi          35KT       May 15-18      Itochu/ME+$43-$44
 HPCL/Visakhapatnam  25KT-30KT  May 8-10       Socar/NA
 Reliance/Sikka      55KT       May 23-25      Unipec/ME+high $20s
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       May 26-28      PetroChina/ME+$38
 MRPL/New Mangalore  35KT       May 10-12      Marubeni/ME+$48
 --------------------------------------------------------------------      
 Total            695KT-715KT 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------   
 April 2013
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     April 22-23        Total/ME+$48
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     April 13-14        BP/ME+$48 to +$50
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT     April 7-8          Idemitsu/ME+$61.00
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT     April 23-25        Statoil/ME+$40.00
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT     Mid April          PetroDiamond/ME+$50
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT     Early April        Unipec/ME+low-mid $50
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT     April 30 to May 3  Marubeni/ME+$50
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT     April 9-14         Vitol/ME+$56
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT     April 24-28        Itochu/ME+$46
 Reliance/Sikka(heavy) 35KT     April 5-10         Marubeni/ME+$61.00
 IOC/Nagapattinam      10KT     April 8-10         Cancelled
 IOC/Chennai           35KT     April 13-15        Unipec/Formula over+$55
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     April 24-26        Totsa/slightly under ME+$51
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     April 14-16        Idemitsu/ME+$64.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     April 6-8          Unipec/ME+$60.50   
 HPCL/Visakhapatnam  25KT-30KT  April 15-17        Cancelled
 HPCL/Mumbai         25KT-30KT  April 15-17        NA
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total            570KT-580KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------------    
 March 2013
 BORL/JNPT            18KT        March 24-29    Trafigura/ME+$52.00
 BPCL/Mumbai          25KT        March 25-26    Vitol/ME+$55.00
 BPCL/Mumbai          35KT        March 19-21    Itochu/ME+$65
 BPCL/Kochi           30KT        March 28-29    Vitol/ME+$55.00
 BPCL/Kochi           35KT        March 1-4      Marubeni/ME+$61
 BPCL/Haldia          11KT        March 25-29    Unipec/ME+$41
 IOC/Chennai          35KT        March 28-30    Socar/Formula+$55
 IOC/Chennai          35KT        March 15-17    PetroChina/Formula+high 60s
 IOC/Kandla           30KT        March 26-28    Total/Formula+$39
 IOC/Dahej         35KT-40KT      March 5-7      Socar/Formula+$69
 HMEL/Mumbai          25KT        March 25-26    Glencore/ME+$32-$33
 HMEL/Mumbai          25KT        March 9-10     Trafigura/ME+$45
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT        March 27-28    Marubeni/ME+$57
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT        March 17-18    Itochu/ME+$57
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT        March 3-4      Chevron/ME+$50
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT        March 29-31    Idemitsu/ME+$62.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT        March 22-24    Daewoo/ME+$66
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT        March 14-16    Itochu/ME+$68
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT        March 3-5      Vitol/ME+$45.50
 Reliance/Sikka       35KT        March 25-29    Shell/high ME+$40s
 Reliance/Sikka     15KT-20KT     H1 March       Unipec/ME+$70
 Essar Oil/Vadinar    35KT        March 22-26    Vitol/ME+$57-$58
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total             669KT-679KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------------   
    
 February 2013
 HPCL/Mumbai                  15KT-20KT  Feb 22-28    Vitol/ME+$47
 HPCL/Mumbai                       20KT  Feb 2-4      Cancelled
 ONGC/Mumbai                       35KT  Feb 22-23    Daewoo/ME+about $53
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Feb 21-22    Itochu/about ME+$51
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Feb 9-10     Idemitsu/ME+$44
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Feb 3-4      Cancelled 
 BPCL/Haldia                       12KT  Feb 18-22    Trafigura/ME+$30
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT  Feb 13-15    Unipec/ME+$41.50
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT  Feb 22-24    Idemitsu/ME+$44
 HMEL/Mumbai                       25KT  Feb 15-16    Glencore/ME+$38
 HMEL/Mumbai                  25KT-30KT  Jan 31-Feb 4 Glencore/ME+$35
 IOC/Kandla                        30KT  Feb 16-18    Total/Formula+$38-39
 Essar/Vadinar                     35KT  Feb 20-24    Trafigura/ME+$38to over$40
 Essar/Vadinar (Dec-March term)    35KT  Feb          Total/NA
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT  Feb 21-23    Total/ME+$47
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT  Feb 8-10     Petro-Diamond/ME+$44
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT  Feb 16-18    Total/ME+$42.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT  Feb 11-13    Cancelled
 Reliance/Sikka (pcn)              55KT  Feb 16-20    Itochu/ME+$42.50
 Reliance  (heavy)                 35KT  Feb 8-10     NA/ME+low $40s
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------     
 
  Total                         637KT-647KT  
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 January 2013
 BPCL/Haldia                       12KT   Jan 27-31  Glencore/ME+$42
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT   Jan 29-31  Marubeni/ME+$40-$41
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT   Jan 14-16  Total/ME+$42
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT   Jan 21-23  Total/ME+$42
 Reliance/Sikka                    35KT   Jan 20-25  Total/ME+high $30s
 Reliance (heavy)                  35KT   H1 Jan     Oman Trading/ME+$50s
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT   Jan 25-26  Total/ME+$44-$45
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT   Jan 13-14  Total/ME+$42-$43
 ONGC/Mumbai                       35KT   Jan 21-22  Total/ME+$41
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT   Jan 26-28  Total/ME+$43.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT   Jan 7-9    Total/ME+$42
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT   Jan 14-16  Total/ME+$45.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT   Jan 20-22  Mitsubishi Corp/ME+$45
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT   Jan 11-13  Cancelled
 IOC/Kandla                        30KT   Jan 5-7    Total/Formula+$37.00
 IOC/Dahej                    35KT-40KT   Jan 14-16  Unipec/Formula+$39
 IOC/Chennai                       35KT   Jan 26-28  Cancelled
 Essar/Vadinar (Dec-March term)    35KT   Jan        Total/NA
 Essar/Vadinar                     35KT   Jan 11-15  Statoil/ME+$35
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                         567KT-572KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------   
 2012/Middle East
 Aden/Yemen    25KT-30KT (N+A)   Dec 2-4     Glencore/ME+$35
 Aden/Yemen    25KT-30KT (light) Dec 2-4     Glencore/ME+$35
 Aden/Yemen    27.5KT (light)    early Nov   Glencore/ME+$47-$48
 Aden/Yemen    27.5KT (heavy)    early Nov   Glencore/ME+$47-$48
 Aden/Yemen    25KT (light)      Oct 5-7     Glencore/ME+$40
 Aden/Yemen    25KT (N+A)        Oct 5-7     Glencore/ME+$40
 Aden/Yemen    15KT-20KT x2      Aug 20-30   Glencore/ME+$25 
 Aden/Yemen    15KT-20KT x2      Sep 10-15   Glencore/ME+$25
       
 ADNOC               75KT       Oct         NA/Formula+$40
 ADNOC               75KT       July 7-9    Daelim/Formula+$13            
 ADNOC               50KT       July 4-6    NA
 Bapco/Bahrain       55KT   Dec 14-18        Arcadia/ME+$30-$32
 Bapco/Bahrain       50KT   Jan 12-15 2012   ME+$16.00      
    
 KPC/Kuwait            50KT    Dec 12-13     Vitol/ME+$27 
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    Nov 27-28     Shell/ME+$38
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    Oct 22-23     Samsung Total/ME+$35
 KPC/Kuwait (frn)      50KT    Oct 6-7       Marubeni/ME+$39
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    Oct 4-5       Marubeni/ME+$39
 KPC/Kuwait            50KT    Aug 16-17     Totsa/ME+$28-29
 KPC/Kuwait (frn+light)50+25   Aug 1-4       Arcadia/ME+$21
 KPC/Kuwait (frn)      50KT    July 22-26    Marubeni/about ME+$10
 KPC/Kuwait (frn)      25KT    July 10-11    Shell/Below ME+$10
 KPC/Kuwait (NA)       25KT    July          Vitol/about ME+$10
 KPC/Kuwait (frn)      50KT    May 28-29     Vitol/ME+$20
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    May 22-23     Mitsui Chem/ME+$37   
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    H1 May        Shell/ME+$39
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    April 18-28   NA/ME+$39
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    April 1-2     Japanese/aboveME+$40
 KPC/Kuwait (light)    24KT    March 7-8     NA/ME+$35-$38
 KPC/Kuwait (frn)    50KT-55KT Jan 13-14     NA/ME+$20  
 
 Samref/Yanbu        230KB            Sept 12-14  NA/ME$21-$23
 Samref+Aramco/Yanbu 230KB+10KT-15KT  Late June   NA/ME+$15
 Samref/Yanbu        230KB            March 7-9   NA/ME+$21
 Samref/Yanbu        230KB            Jan 13-15   NA    
    
Saudi Aramco             500KT-600KT   Sep              ME+$20s
Saudi Aramco/Yanbu          55KTx2     Aug              ME+$21-$23
Saudi Aramco/Jeddah+Rabigh  55KT       Aug              ME+$21-$23
Saudi Aramco/Jubail         55KT       Aug              ME+$21-$23
Saudi Aramco/Ras Tanura     55KT       H1 Sep (S Korea) JP C&F+$14-$16
Saudi Aramco/Ras Tanura     55KT       Early July       ME+$15
Saudi Aramco/Rabigh         55KT       Mid-July         ME+$15
(Aramco's total July sales were up to 600KT, no details on others)
Saudi Aramco/Jubail         55KT       Late June        NA  
Saudi Aramco/Rabigh         75KT       Late June        NA
Saudi Aramco/Ras Tanura     55KT       June 11-13       ME+$25
Saudi Aramco/Ras Tanura     55KT       May 24-25        ME+$31-$33
Saudi Aramco/Rabigh+Jeddah  55KT       April 15-17      ME+$35
Saudi Aramco/Rabigh+Jeddah  40KT+10KT  March 2012       ME+$36-$38   
Tasweeq/Ras Laffan    50KT  (pc)        Dec 26-27     NA
Tasweeq/Ras Laffan    25KT or 50KT      Nov 23-30     NA
Tasweeq/Qatar (PCN)   50KT              H2 Sept       NA/ME+$24-$26
Tasweeq/Qatar (FRN)   50KT              H2 Sept       NA/ME+$24-$26
Tasweeq/Qatar (GTL)   25KT              H2 Sept       NA
Tasweeq/Qatar         300KT-600KT  Oct 2012-Sept 2013 Aug 13 (Aug 16)
Tasweeq/Qatar         300KT-600KT  Oct 2012-Sept 2013 Aug 13 (Aug 16)
Tasweeq (FRN+PCN)     50KT+25KT    Late Aug      Glencore/ME+$24
Tasweeq (PCN)         50KT         Late Aug      NA
Tasweeq               Over 200KT   July          Western/Korean/
                                                 up to ME+$10
Tasweeq (GTL)         30KT       Late May        YNCC/below ME+$37
Tasweeq (PC)          50KT       Late May        YNCC/below ME+$37
Tasweeq (GTL)         50KT       H2 April        above ME+$40
Tasweeq               50KT       Jan 19-20       ME+$20
Tasweeq               30KT       Jan 29-30 2012  ME+$20
  
 India    
 DECEMBER 2012 
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Dec 31-Jan 1  Idemitsu/ME+$44
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Dec 10-11     Gunvor/ME+$31
 ONGC/Hazira                       35KT  Dec 21-22     Unipec/ME+$32
 ONGC/Mumbai                       35KT  Dec 24-25     Shell/ME+$35.25
 HMEL/Mumbai                  25KT-30KT  Dec 27-Jan 2  Trafigura/NA
 HMEL/Mumbai                  16KT-18KT  Dec 5-10      Trafigura/NA
 HMEL/Mumbai                  15KT-20KT  Dec 13-17     Total/NA
 Reliance                          55KT  mid-H2 Dec    Vitol/mid ME+$30s  
 Reliance                          55KT  mid-H2 Dec    Trafigura/mid ME+$30s
 Reliance/Sikka                    55KT  Dec 10-15     Lukoil/ME+$47-$48
 Reliance/Sikka                    55KT  end-Dec       NA/ME+$31
 Essar/Vadinar (Dec-March term)    35KT  Dec           Total/ME+$42
 Essar/Vadinar                     35KT  Dec 21-25     Matrix/ME+$27
 BPCL/Mumbai (Bina cargo)          18KT  Dec 22-26     Matrix/ME+$13            
           
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT  Dec 10-12     PTT/ME+$40-$41
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT  Dec 19-21     Marubeni/ME+$40-$41
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q4 term)             35KT  Dec 1-15      Marubeni/ME+$28.50
 BPCL/Haldia                       11KT  Dec 5-9       Vitol/ME-$18
 BPCL/Mumbai                       35KT  Dec 27-29     Shell/ME+$36.00
 HPCL/Mumbai                  20KT-25KT  Dec 11-13     Glencore/ME+$35
 HPCL/Mumbai                  20KT-25KT  Dec 8-10      Cancelled
 IOC/Dahej                         35KT  Dec 26-28     Itochu/Formula+$36
 IOC/Dahej                    35KT-40KT  Dec 14-16     Total/Formula+$32
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT  Dec 19-21     Idemitsu/ME+$44.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore (Dec-Feb term) 35KT  Dec 11-13     Marubeni/ME+$50-$51
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT  Dec 3-5       Total/ME+$47.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore                35KT  Dec 28-30     Marubeni/ME+$32-33
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total                          905KT-932KT 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 NOVEMBER
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    Nov 28-29     Unipec/ME+$38.50
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    Nov 18-19     Gunvor/ME+47.50
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT    Nov 12-13     Total/ME+$38-$39
 IOC/Dahej             35KT    Nov 28-30     STO Maldives/ME+$50
 IOC/Dahej          35KT-40KT  Nov 16-18     Marubeni/Formula+$41
 IOC/Kandla            30KT    Nov 18-20     Cargill/ME+38-39
 HPCL/Mumbai           20KT    Nov 13-18     Unipec/ME+$25
 HPCL/Mumbai           25KT    Nov 25-30     Total/ME+$31-$33
 HPCL/Mumbai           25KT    Nov 5-7       Vitol/ME+$36-$37
 HPCL/Mumbai           25KT    Nov 25-27     Cancelled
 HPCL/Vizag         25KT-30KT  Nov 3-8       Socar/ME+$40.75
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT    Nov 30-Dec 4  Mitsubishi Corp/ME+$46-$49
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT    Nov 11-15     Total/ME+$40   
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT    Nov 3-5       Shell/ME+$32
 Essar/Vadinar       35KT    Nov 22-26     Vitol/ME+35-36
 BPCL/Mumbai           30KT    Nov 10-12     Vitol/ME+$41
 BPCL/Mumbai           30KT    Nov 15-17     STO/ME+$38
 BPCL/Mumbai           30KT    Nov 25-27     Marubeni/ME+$35
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q4 term) 35KT    Nov 1-15      Marubeni/ME+$26.50
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT    Nov 22-26     Cancelled
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Nov 26-28     PetroDiamond/ME+$43
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Nov 17-19     Unipec/ME+$41.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Nov 13-15     Unipec/ME+$39-$40
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Nov 7-9       PetroDiamond/ME+$34-$35
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT    Late Nov      Marubeni/ME+$38
 Reliance/Sikka     75KT+30KT Nov 25-30     Glencore/ME+$42 and ME+$49
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total               855KT-865KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------   
 OCTOBER
 HMEL/Mumbai           18KT       Oct 28-Nov 2  Shell/NA
 BPCL/Mumbai           30KT       Oct 29-31     Unipec/ME+$26
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT       Oct 22-24     Itochu/ME+$33-$34
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT       Oct 2-4       Marubeni/ME+$40
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q4 term) 35KT       Oct 1-15      Total/ME+$25
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT       Oct 10-14     Trafigura/ME-$10.50
 BPCL/Kochi            30KT       Oct 17-21     Total/ME+$30
 HMEL/Mumbai        16KT-18KT     Oct 11-25     Trafigura/NA
 IOC/Dahej             35KT       Oct 25-27     Glencore/Formula+$31 
 IOC/Dahej          35KT-40KT     Early Oct     SOCAR/Formula+$40
 IOC/Chennai           35KT       Oct 15-17     PetroChina/Formula+$39
 IOC/Haldia            8KT        Oct 8-10      Vitol/Formula-$45.00
 IOC/Kandla         30KT-40KT     Oct 8-10      SOCAR/Formula+$25.65
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT       Oct 26-30     Itochu/ME+$31-$32
 Essar/Vadinar       33KT-35KT    Oct 12-16     PetroDiamond/ME+$32
 Essar/Vadinar         30KT       H1 Oct        Glencore/ME+$28
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Oct 26-27     Total/ME+$30
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Oct 16-17     Gunvor/ME+$39
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT       Oct 3-4       Total/ME+$34  
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT       Oct 10-11     Cargill/ME+$30
 HPCL/Mumbai         25KT-27KT    Oct 17-22     Shell/ME+$22-$23
 HPCL/Mumbai         20KT-25KT    Oct           Shell/ME+$19-20
 Reliance/Sikka      50KT-55KT    Oct 25-30     Unipec/above ME+$35
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Oct 29-31     Marubeni/ME+$37
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Oct 18-20     Statoil/ME+$35
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Oct 11-13     Unipec/ME+$46
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT       Oct 3-5       Total/ME+$42
 -----------------------------------------------------------
 Total              818KT-857KT
 -----------------------------------------------------------
       
 SEPTEMBER
*HPCL/Mumbai         15KT-20KT  Sept 20-26    Total/ME+$16.98
 HPCL/Mumbai         20KT-25KT  Sept          Shell/ME+$19-20
 Essar/Vadinar       28KT-30KT  Sept 26-30    Vitol/ME+$33-$35
 Essar/Vadinar       28KT-30KT  Sept 16-20    Vitol/ME+$25
 Essar/Vadinar       31KT-35KT  Sept 7-9      Vitol/ME+$15
 Reliance/Sikka         75KT    Sept 25-30    Cargill/low ME+$40s
 IOC/Dahej           35KT-40KT  Sept 18-20    Unipec/Formula+$34.5
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT    Sept 23-24    Unipec/ME+$39.3
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT    Sept 10-11    Total/ME+$25
 ONGC/Mumbai            35KT    Sept 13-14    Socar/ME+$31.50
 BPCL/Haldia            11KT    Sept 18-22    Glencore/ME+$3 
 BPCL/Mumbai (Bina)     18KT    Sept 20-25    Unipec/ME+$17
 BPCL/Mumbai (Bina)     18KT    Sept 16-20    Cancelled
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q3 Term)  35KT    Sept 1-15     Shell/ME+$26-27 
             (Q3 Term)  35KT    Sept 16-20    Shell/ME+$26-27
 MRPL/New Mangalore     35KT    Sept 17-19    PetroDiamond/ME+$33.50
 MRPL/New Mangalore     35KT    Sept 9-11     PetroChina/ME+$29.50
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total              506KT-529KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
 END JULY-AUGUST
 HMEL/Mumbai            13KT    Aug 16-31      NA
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   25KT-30KT  Aug 23-25      Vitol/ME+low $20s
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   23KT-25KT  Aug 15-19      Shell/ME+$22   
 Essar Oil/Vadinar   28KT-30KT  Aug 4-6        Vitol/ME+$29-30
 Essar Oil/Vadinar      25KT    July 29-Aug 2  Glencore/ME+$15
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT    Aug 28-29      Total/ME+$27.50
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT    Aug 18-19      Gunvor/ME+$25
 ONGC/Hazira            35KT    Aug 5-6        Total/ME+$33
 ONGC/Mumbai            35KT    Aug 11-12      Total/ME+$21.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore     35KT    Aug 28-30      Total/ME+$22  
 MRPL/New Mangalore     35KT    Aug 20-22      Cargill/ME+$32
 MRPL/New Mangalore     35KT    Aug 8-10       PetroChina/ME+$29.50
 BPCL/Haldia            10KT    Aug 24-28      Vitol/ME+$12
 BPCL/Haldia            10KT    Aug 5-9        Vitol/ME+$11 
 BPCL/Mumbai            35KT    Aug 28-30      Shell/ME+$24-$25
 BPCL/Mumbai            35KT    Aug  10-12     Total/ME+$20
 BPCL/Mumbai  (Q3 Term) 35KT    Aug  1-15      Shell/ME+$26-27
              (Q3 Term) 35KT    Aug  16-31     Shell/ME+$26-27 
 BPCL/Kochi             35KT    Aug 6-10       Cargill/ME+$26
 HPCL/Mumbai         20KT-25KT  Aug 27-29      Shell/ME+$19-20
 HPCL/Mumbai            25KT    Aug 9-11       Trafigura/Formula+$22-$23
 HPCL/Mumbai            25KT    July 30-Aug 1  Glencore/Formula+$17-$18
 HPCL/Vizag          25KT-30KT  Aug 1-3        Total/ME+$26.00
 Reliance/Sikka         75KT    Aug 23-27      Mercuria/ME+$25 
 Reliance/Mumbai     15KT-20KT  Aug 1-15       Western/ME+$17-$19   
 IOC/Kandla             30KT    Aug 9-11       Vitol/Formula+$24-$24.50
 IOC/Dahej           35KT-40KT  Aug 10-12      Vitol/Formula+$28.50
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 Total               766KT-790KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------       
    
 JULY LOADINGS 
 IOC/Haldia            15KT    July 25-27     PetroChina/Formula+$7.75
 IOC/Dahej             35KT    July 20-22     Marubeni/Formula+$18.00
 IOC/Dahej             35KT    July 10-12     Total/Formula+$12.50 
 IOC/Kandla            30KT    July 14-16     Unipec/Formula+$13.50
 Essar Oil/Vadinar     18KT    H1 July        Total/ME+$14.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    July 28-30     Arcadia/ME+$23
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    July 18-20     Gunvor/ME+$14
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    July 11-13     Shell/ME+$14.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    July 5-7       Marubeni/ME+$18
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    July 24-25     SK Energy/ME+$27
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    July 14-15     Gunvor/ME+$19.50
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT    July 12-13     Marubeni/ME+$13-$13.50 
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT    July 18-22     Total/ME+$14.00
 BPCL/Mumbai (LAN)     35KT    July 16-18     Cancelled 
 BPCL/Mumbai (LAN)     35KT    July 25-27     Unipec/ME+$17-$18
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q3 Term) 35KT    July 1-15      Idemitsu/ME+$25-26
             (Q3 Term) 35KT    July 16-31     Shell/ME+$25-26
 HPCL/Mumbai         20KT-25KT July 3-5       Itochu/ME+$10.15
 -------------------------------------------------------------
 Total              573KT-578KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------   
 JUNE LOADINGS 
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     June 29-30   Gunvor/ME+$14
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     June 16-17   Gunvor/ME+$22
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     June 4-5     IPG/ME+$51
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT     June 12-13   Idemitsu/ME+$27.50 
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT   June 16-18   Unipec/ME+$11.00
 HPCL/Mumbai           25KT     June 8-10    Glencore/ME+$23
 HPCL/Vizag         25KT-30KT   June 15-17   Glencore/ME+$22-$23
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     June 26-28   Lukoil/ME+$22
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     June 13-15   Mercuria/ME+$21
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     June 5-7     Statoil/ME+$34
 Reliance/Sikka        75KT     June 6-10    Major/ME+$36-$37
 Reliance/Sikka        75KT     June 23-27   NA/ME+$25.00 
 BPCL/Mumbai           18KT     June 15-20   Unipec/ME+$20
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT     June 28-30   PetroChina/Below+$20
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT     June 3-5     Glencore/ME+$37
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     June         Idemitsu/ME+$27-$30
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     June         Idemitsu/ME+$27-$30 
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT   June 29-July 2 PetroChina/Below+$20
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT     June 8-11    Total/ME+$37
 BPCL/Haldia           10KT     June 5-9     Glencore/ME+$20
 IOC/Dahej             35KT     June 18-20   PetroChina/Formula+$18.75
 IOC/Kandla            30KT     June 7-9     Unipec/Formula+$26
 IOC/Chennai           35KT     June 4-6     PetroChina/Formula+$43.50
 
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 Total              803KT-813KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
    
 MAY LOADINGS
 HPCL/Mumbai           25KT     May 22-24    Cargill/ME+$38
 HPCL/Vizag         25KT-30KT   May 19-21    Vitol/NA
 IOC/Kandla            15KT     May 16-18    Cancelled
 IOC/Kandla            15KT     May 21-22    Cancelled 
 IOC/Dahej             35KT     May 28-30    Arcadia/slightly below Formula+$40 
 IOC/Dahej           35KT-40KT  May 13-15    Cancelled
 Reliance/Sikka        75KT     May 20-25    Glencore/ME+$44-$46
 Reliance/Sikka        75KT     May 8-11     Total/ME+$50
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT     May 23-25    Marubeni/ME+$45
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT     May 19-23    Total/ME+$47-$48
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     May          PetroChina/ME+$32
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     May          Idemitsu/ME+$27-$30
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     May 23-24    Gunvor/ME+$49
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     May 13-14    Unipec/ME+$46
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT     May 9-10     Idemitsu/ME+$44
 Essar/Vadinar       30KT-35KT  May          Total//ME+$35
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     May 3-5      Total/ME+$41
 (MRPL cargo to be delayed to third week of May) 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Total             545KT-555KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
 APRIL 2012 LOADINGS
 Essar/Vadinar      30KT-35KT  Mid-April      Tota/ME+$39.00
 BPCL/Haldia           10KT     April 23-27    PetroChina/ME+$20
 BPCL/Haldia           10KT     April 4-8      Trafigura/ME+$7.00
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT     April 28-May 1 PetroChina/ME+$44
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT     April 16-18    PetroChina/ME+$41 
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     April          Marubeni/ME+$35
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q2 term) 35KT     April          Cargill/ME+$34
 IOC/Dahej          35KT-40KT   April 27-29    Total/Formula+$35 
 IOC/Dahej          35KT-40KT   April 11-13    Glencore/Formula+$41
 IOC/Kandla            30KT     April 23-25    Total/Formula+$32
 IOC/Kandla            30KT     April 8-10     Glencore/Formula+$37
 IOC/Chennai           35KT     April 4-6      Unipec/Formula+$49.50
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT     April 14-15    Unipec/ME+$42.00
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     April 30-May 1 Total/ME+$43.00
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     April 17-18    Gunvor/ME+$41
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT     April 7-8      Itochu/ME+$50
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT     late April     Glencore/ME+$39 
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT     April 10-15    Vitol/ME+$41
 HPCL/Vizag          25KT-30KT  April 1-3      NA
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     April 5-7      SK Energy/ME+$39.00
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT     April 14-16    SK Energy/ME+$38.00    
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total             700KT-720KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
           
 MARCH 2012 LOADINGS
 IOC/Kandla           30KT      March 26-28   PetroChina/Formula+$42.50 
 IOC/Kandla           30KT      March 11-13   Mabanaft/Formula+$44
 IOC/Haldia           15KT      March 7-9     Itochu/Formula+$24.75
 IOC/Dahej          38KT-40KT   March 24-26   Itochu/Formula+$46
 IOC/Dahej            35KT      March 9-11    Marubeni/Formula+$38
 IOC/Chennai          35KT      March 7-9     Unipec/Formula+$44
 BPCL/JNPT            17KT      March 24-31   Marubeni/ME+$35
 BPCL/Haldia          10KT      March 20-24   Shell/ME+$21
 BPCL/Kochi           35KT      March 20-23   Marubeni/ME+$48  
 BPCL/Kochi           35KT      March 5-8     Vitol/ME+$37.00  
 BPCL/Mumbai          35KT      March 27-29   Vitol/ME+$45-$46
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q1 term)35KTx3    March         Marubeni/ME+18.05/ME+$18.55/ME+$19
 
 ONGC/Hazira          35KT      March 25-26   Unipec/ME+$45-$46
 ONGC/Mumbai          35KT      March 21-22   Unipec/ME+$59.50
 ONGC/Mumbai          35KT      March 1-2     Vitol/ME+$36
 Reliance/Sikka       75KT      End March     Trafigura/ME+$56-$58
 Reliance/Sikka       10KT      March 6-8     Itochu/ME+$44
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT   March 12-14  Vitol/ME+$40-$45
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT   March 27-29  Itochu/ME+$40 
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT   March 3-5    Itochu/+$25.10
 HPCL/Vizag         25KT-30KT   March 1-3    Total/almost ME+$41.00
 Essar/Vadinar      30KT-35KT   H2 March     NA/ME+$40-$45   
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT      March 25-27  Unipec/ME+$45
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT      March 16-18  Itochu/ME+$44
 MRPL/New Mangalore   35KT      March 9-11   Marubeni/ME+$34
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total             830KT-857KT   
 ------------------------------------------------------------------   
     
 FEBRUARY 2012 LOADINGS
 IOC/Haldia           11KT      Feb 25-27  Unipec/Formula+$14-15
 IOC/Dahej             35KT      Feb 24-26  Total/Formula+$31-$32
 IOC/Dahej             35KT      Feb 15-17  SK Energy/Formula+$31.50
 IOC/Dahej             35KT      Feb 4-6    Unipec/Formula+$23.77
 IOC/Kandla            30KT      Feb 25-27  Shell/Formula+$28.00
 IOC/Kandla            30KT      Feb 2-4    Total/Formula+$21.25
 BCL/Haldia            11KT      Feb 20-24  Trafigura/ME-$17
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT      Feb 11-15  Glencore/ME+$25-$26 
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT      Feb 25-27  Idemitsu/ME+$33 
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q1 term) 35KTx2    Feb        Marubeni/ME+$18.75/ME+$19.25
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT    Feb 15-17  Cargill/+$25.40
 HPCL/ Mumbai       20KT-25KT    Feb 4-6    Vitol/ME+$17-$19   
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT      Feb 25-29  Western/ME+$31-$33
 Reliance/Sikka        55KT      Feb 5-10   NA/ME+$27-$28
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT      Feb 10-11  Total/ME+$32.60
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT      Feb 26-28  Total/ME+$32.25
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT      Feb 18-20  Cargill/slightly above ME+$29
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT      Feb 9-11   Vitol/ME+$27-28
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT      Feb 5-7    Unipec/slightly below ME+$27
 Essar/Vadinar       30KT-35KT   Feb 15-19  Shell/ME+$27-$28
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total              687KT-702KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------    
    
 JANUARY 2012 LOADINGS
 IOC/Chennai           35KT    Jan 29-31     Glencore/Formula+$26
 IOC/Dahej             35KT    Jan 10-12     Marubeni/formula above +$20
 IOC/Dahej             35KT    Jan 21-23     Marubeni/formula above +$20
 IOC/Kandla            30KT    Jan 24-26     Total/formula+$15
 BPCL/Haldia           11KT    Jan 27-31     Glencore/ME-$31.00
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT    Jan 28-30     PetroChina/ME+$21.00
 BPCL/Mumbai (Q1 term) 35KT    Jan           Marubeni/ME+$22.75
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT    Jan 13-15     Shell/ME+16.80
 BPCL/Mumbai           35KT    Jan 5-7       Totsa/ME+$14
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT    Jan 18-22     Shell/ME+20
 BPCL/Kochi            35KT    Jan 3-7       Total/ME+$17
 *Reliance/Sikka       55KT    Jan 5-10      Shell/ME+$20
 *Reliance/Sikka       55KT    H2 Jan        NA
 Essar/Vadinar         35KT    Jan 7-11      Total/ME+$23.95
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Jan 28-30     Unipec/ME+$27
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Jan 11-13     Vitol/ME+$15 
 MRPL/New Mangalore    35KT    Jan 18-20     Itochu/ME+$21
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    Jan 23-24     Itochu/ME+$29
 ONGC/Hazira           35KT    Jan 13-14     Totsa/ME+$30.50
 ONGC/Mumbai           35KT    Jan 18-19     Unipec/ME+$22.00   
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT  Jan 16-20     Vitol/ME+$17-$19
 HPCL/Mumbai        20KT-25KT  Jan 6-8       Mercuria/ME+7.50
 ------------------------------------------------------------
  Total            751KT-761KT
 -------------------------------------------------------------
 (Asia Energy Desk)
Released: 2014-10-28T12:32:30.000Z
Document LBA0000020141020eaak003pp
 Speciality glass maker Corning's quarterly net sales rise 23 pct
Reuters, 06:36, 28 October 2014, 234 words, (English)
Oct 28 (Reuters) - Speciality glass maker Corning Inc reported a 23 percent rise in quarterly net sales, helped by higher demand for its glass used in TVs and smartphones.
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas003ph
N.Asia Spot Naphtha trades-S Korea's Samsung Total buys H1 Dec
6,907 words
28 October 2014
05:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds Samsung Total)
 (For a list of market-on-close oil product trades click [O/AS)
 COUNTRY   SPEC     VOL        DATES                 BUYER      PRICE
 Oct 28 
 S Korea   frn      25KT       H1 Dec                Samsung    below -$13.00
    
 Oct 24 
 S Korea  osn/light 50KT       H1 Dec                LG Chem    -$14/-$11.50 
    
 Oct 23
 S Korea           82.5KT      H1 Dec                YNCC       -$13.75
   
 Oct 20 
 S Korea   osn      25KT       H1 Dec                Lotte      -$13
  
      
 Oct 16 
 Japan              25KT       H2 Nov                Mitsui     -$12     
       
 Oct 15 
 S Korea            NA         H2 Nov                Lotte      -$14.00
    
 Oct 14
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       H2 Nov                Formosa    -$14.00
 
 Oct 10 
 S Korea         25KT-50KT     H2 Nov                LG Chem    -$10.00
    
 Oct 8 
 Taiwan  heavy frn  NA         Nov                   CPC        -$8.00
 
 Oct 7 
 Japan              NA         H2 Nov                Asahi      -$6.00 
 
 Sept 19 
 Japan            25KT-50KT    H1 Nov                Mitsui     -$4 to -$6 
       
 Sept 18
 S Korea            50KT       H1 Nov                YNCC       -$7.50 
 
 Sept 12 
 S Korea            25KT       H1 Nov                NA         -$4.00
    
 Aug 29 
 Japan              25KT       H1 Oct                NA         discount
 
 Aug 26  
 Japan              25KT       H1 Oct                NA         slight premium  
    
 
 Aug 18 
 Taiwan    osn      NA         H2 Sept               Formosa    -$6.00
 
 Aug 13 
 S Korea           25KT-50KT   H2 Sept               YNCC       -$2.00
 
 Aug 7 
 S Korea            NA         Sept                  LG Chem    -$0.50
                    NA         Oct                   LG Chem    +$3.50
 Aug 5 
 Taiwan   frn       NA         Aug 25-Sept 25        CPC        +$1.00   
 
 Aug 4
 S Korea            25KT       H1 Sept               LG Chem   +$2.50 to +$4.50
 
 Aug 1 
 S Korea            25KT       H1 Sept               KPIC       +$3.50
 
 July 31 
 S Korea       22.5KT-27.5KT   H1 Sept               Lotte      +$5.00
    
 July 30 
 S Korea         45KT-60KT     H1 Sept               YNCC       +$8.50
    
 July 14 
 S Korea        67.5KT-90KT    H2 Aug                YNCC       +$15 to +$16
 
 July 11
 Taiwan    osn      100K       H2 Aug                Formosa    +$11 to $12
 
 July 4
 Taiwan    frn   over 35KT     Aug 1-25              CPC        +$8.00
           hvn   over 35KT     Aug 1-25              CPC        +35 to +$36
 June 30 
 Taiwan    osn      100KT      H1 Aug                Formosa    +$8.00 to +$8.70
    
 June 27 
 S Korea        22.5KT-27.5KT  H1 Aug                Lotte Chem +$10.00
                                                     (Daesan)
 
 Malaysia       22.5KT-30KT    Aug 11-15             Titan      +$10
    
 June 26 
 S Korea           75KT        H1 Aug                YNCC       +$8.50
    
 June 25 
 S Korea           75KT        H1 Aug                LG Chem    +$8.50 to +$9.00
                                                 (Yeosu/Daesan)
 June 20 
 S Korea           50KT        H1 Aug                YNCC       +$8.50
 June 17
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       H2 July               Formosa    +$8 to +$8.50   
 S Korea           25KT        H2 July               LG Chem    +$10 to +$11
    
 June 13
 Malaysia    22.5KT to 30KT    July 16-25            Titan     over +$10 
    
 June 11 
 S Korea     67.5KT to 90KT    H2 July               YNCC       +$12.25
    
 June 10 
 S Korea     22.5KT to 55KT    H2 July               Lotte      +$12.50
    
 June 9
 S Korea           75KT        July                  LG Chem    from +$12.50
  
 June 5 
 Taiwan   frn  at least 35KT   July 1-25             CPC        +$9 to +$10 
          hvy  at least 35KT   July 1-25             CPC        +$30s
 June 3
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       July 6-20             Formosa    +$9 to +$10
    
 June 2
 Malaysia      22.5KT-30KT     H1 July               Titan      +$10 
    
 May 28 
 S Korea           25KT        H1 July               LG Chem    +$18 
                                                     (Daesan)
 May 21 
 Japan             25KT        H2 June             Mitsui Chem  +$16
          
 May 20 
 Malaysia      22.5KT-30KT     June 16-24            Titan      +$15 
     
 May 19 
 Japan             25KT        H1 July               Maruzen    Under +$12
                                                               (45 days pricing)
 
 S Korea           50KT        H2 June               LG Chem    +$18 
                                                     (Daesan)
 May 15 
 Japan             25KT        H2 June               Idemitsu   +$20 
    
 May 12 
 S Korea           25KT        June 8-23             LG Chem    +$19
                                                     (Yeosu)
                   25KT        H2 June               LG Chem    +$21
                                                     (Daesan)
 May 9 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       June 8-22             Formosa    +$15 to +$16
    
 May 7 
 S Korea        50KT-75KT      H1 June               LG Chem    +$19 to +$20
 
 May 2 
 Taiwan    osn  120KT-150KT    H1 June               Formosa    +$15 to +$17 
    
 April 29 
 Taiwan    frn     NA          May 26-June 20        CPC        +$16 to +$17
 Taiwan    heavy   NA          May 26-June 30        CPC        +$30 
 S Korea           25KT        H1 June               YNCC  +$19.00 to +$19.50
    
 April 22
 S Korea   frn     25KT        H1 June               Lotte      +$17.50
                                                    (Daesan)
 April 21 
 S Korea           25KT        H2 May                LG Chem    +$15.75
                                                     (Daesan)
                   25KT        H1 June               LG Chem    +$16.00
                                                     (Daesan)
 April 15 
 S Korea           50KT-75KT   H2 May                YNCC       +$15            
    
 April 14 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       H2 May                Formosa    under +$12
       
 April 9 
 S Korea           25KT        H2 May                Samsung    +$16 to +$17
 S Korea           50KT-75KT   H2 May                SK Energy  +$19 to +$20
 
 April 4 
 Japan             25KT        H2 May                Maruzen    over +$10  
                                                                (45-day pricing)
 April 3
 S Korea           25KT        H2 May                Samsung    +$17
 Malaysia          30KT        H2 May                Titan      +$10 
 
 April 2 
 Taiwan   frn      over 70KT    April 26-May 20      CPC        +$13 to +$14
          heavy    over 70KT    April 26-May 20      CPC        +$30  
              
 March 28 
 S Korea           25KT        H1 May                Samsung    +$16 to $17 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT       H1 May                Formosa    +$12 to +$13
    
 March 24 
 S Korea        up to 55KT     H1 May                Lotte      +$17
                                                  (Daesan/Yeosu)
 March 19 
 *S Korea  osn    25KT          H1 May               Samsung    +14.25
 S Korea   osn    25KT          H1 May               YNCC       +11-12      
 March 12
 S Korea   osn   45KT-55KT      H2 April             Lotte      +$9.00
                                                    (Yeosu)
 Malaysia  frn  22.5KT-30KT     April 16-20          Titan      +$3.50
       
 March 7 
 Japan             25KT        H1 April             Mitsui     +$9 to +$10
 S Korea           25KT        H2 April             Samsung    +10-11
 March 6 
 S Korea   osn     25KT        H2 April             LG Chem    +$8.50 
                                                    (Yeosu) 
           osn     25KT        H2 April             LG Chem    +$9.00
                                                    (Daesan)
 March 3 
 S Korea       50KT to 75KT    H1 April             LG Chem    +$10 
                                                    (Daesan)
 
 Japan     osn     25KT        H1 April             Mitsubishi +$11        
    
 Feb 27 
 S Korea   frn     50KT        H1 April             Lotte      +$11
                                                    (Daesan)
 Feb 26    
 S Korea   osn  45KT to 60KT   H1 April             YNCC       +$8 
 
 Feb 25
 S Korea           50KT        H1 April             Samsung    +9
 
 Feb 24   
 S Korea           50KT        H1 April             Lotte Chem +7.00
                                                    (Yeosu)      
    
 Feb 21 
 S Korea            25KT       H1 April             LG Chem    +$6.00
                                                   (Daesan)
                    25KT       H2 March             LG Chem    +$4.50 to +$5.00 
         
                                                    (Yeosu)
 Feb 20             
 Japan              25KT       H2 March             Maruzen    +$7.00
       
 Feb 17 
 S Korea   osn      50KT       H2 March             YNCC       +$3.50 
    
 Feb 14 
 Malaysia  frn      30KT       H1 April             Titan      discount $2
                                                               (45-day)
 Feb 13
 Taiwan    osn      90KT       H2 March             Formosa    slightly 
                                                               below +$1
                                                               
 Feb 12    
 S Korea   osn      25KT       H2 March             Lotte      +$5.50 
                                                   (Yeosu)
 
 Feb 10 
 S Korea   osn      25KT       H1 March             LG Chem    +$7.50
                                                    (Yeosu)
    
 Feb 5 
 S Korea   frn      25KT       H2 March             Lotte      +$10 to +$10.50
                                                   (Daesan)
        
 Feb 3
 Japan     osn      25KT       H1 March             Mitsui     +$10
    
 Jan 28    
 Taiwan    frn      NA         Feb 26-March 30      CPC        +$12
 Taiwan    heavy    NA         Feb 26-March 30      CPC        +$30
 S Korea   frn      50KT       H1 March             Lotte      +$11-$12
                                                   (Daesan)
 
 Japan              25KT       H1 March             Mitsui     +$17-$19
       
 Jan 23
 Taiwan    osn      150KT      H1 March             Formosa    +$9 to +$11
    
 Jan 22    
 S Korea   frn      50KT       H1 March             Lotte      +$12
                                                   (Daesan)
       
 Jan 20 
 S Korea            25KT       H2 Feb               Lotte      +$9.00 to +$9.50
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Jan 15 
 Taiwan    osn      150KT      H2 Feb               Formosa    +$10 to +$11
       
 Jan 9 
 Japan              25KT       H1 Feb               Mitsui     +$18 to +$19
 
 Jan 8 
 Malaysia           NA         H2 Feb               Titan      NA
    
 Jan 7 
 Japan              25KT       H1 Feb               Maruzen    +$19   
    
 2013
 Dec 30 
 Taiwan    osn      150KT      H1 Feb               Formosa    +$11 to +$13
    
 Dec 27 
 S Korea            75KT       H1 Feb               LG Chem    +$15 to +$16 
                                                    (Daesan)
 Dec 20
 S Korea   osn      50KT       H1 Feb               YNCC       +$17.50   
    
 Dec 18 
 Malaysia  frn      50KT-55KT  H1 Feb               Titan      +$10    
 
 Dec 17 
 S Korea            50KT       H1 Feb               Lotte      +$14.00
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Dec 16 
 S Korea   hvy frn  25KT-50KT  H1 Feb               Samsung    +$14.50
    
 Dec 13            
 Taiwan    osn      120KT      H2 Jan               Formosa    +$8 to +$9 
 
 Dec 12 
 S Korea            50KT       H2 Jan               LG Chem    +$11
 
 Dec 11
 S Korea            50KT       H1 Feb               Lotte      +$15.50          
 
                                                   (Daesan) 
 Dec 6 
 S Korea            25KT       H2 Jan               Lotte      +$12.50 
 S Korea            25KT       H2 Jan               LG Chem    +$14
   
 Dec 3
 Malaysia     22.5KT-30KT x3   Jan 1-15             Titan      +$12
    
 Dec 2 
 Taiwan    osn     150KT      H1 Jan 2014          Formosa    +$8.00
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Jan 2014          Lotte      +$11 to +$12
                                                   (Yeosu)
    
                   25KT       H2 Jan 2014          Lotte      +$13 to +$14      
    
                                                   (Daesan)    
 Nov 29
 Malaysia          22.5-30KT  Jan 1-5 2014         Titan      +$11   
 Taiwan    frn     35KT       Dec 25-Jan 25 2014   CPC        +$10 
 Taiwan    heavy   35KT       Jan 5-25 2014        CPC        +$30 
      
 Nov 27 
 S Korea           100KT      H2 Jan 2014          YNCC       +$14 
    
 Nov 26 
 S Korea           NA         H2 Jan 2014          Lotte      +$12 to +$14
       
 Nov 18 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Jan 2014          Lotte      +$12 to +$13
                                                   (Yeosu)
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Jan 2014          Samsung    +$15       
     
 Nov 14 
 Taiwan    osn     75KT       H2 Dec               Formosa    +$7 to +$9 
    
 Nov 12 
 Malaysia  frn  22.5KT-30KT   H2 Dec               Titan      +$6.00
    
 Nov 11
 S Korea        45KT-60KT     H1 Jan               YNCC       +$17
        
 Oct 31 
 Japan             25KT       H2 Dec               Mitsui     +$11 
 Malaysia        Cancelled    H2 Dec               Titan 
    
 Oct 30 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Dec               Samsung   +$12
 Taiwan    osn     75KT       H1 Dec               Formosa   +$5 to +$7
        
 Oct 29 
 S Korea           75KT       H2 Dec               Lotte      +$9
    
 Oct 28 
 S Korea           75KT       H2 Dec               YNCC       +$8
 
 Oct 24 
 Japan             25KT       H1 Dec               Mitsui     +$7 to +$8 
       
 Oct 23
 Malaysia        Cancelled    Dec 1-10             Titan 
    
 Oct 22
 Japan             25KT       H1 Dec               Maruzen    +$5 (45 days)
    
 Oct 21    osn     75KT       H1 Dec               YNCC       +5.50 
    
 Oct 18 
 S Korea           100KT      H1 Dec               LG Chem    +$3.50 to $4.50
    
 Oct 17 
 Japan             NA         H1 Dec               Tosoh      NA
 S Korea           50KT-75KT  H1 Dec               Lotte      +$2 to +$3
 
 Oct 10 
 S Korea   osn  22.5KT-30KT   H2 Nov               YNCC       minus $3.50
 
 Oct 8 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Nov  (Yeosu)      Lotte      minus $4.00
           frn     25KT       H2 Nov  (Daesan)     Lotte      minus $2.00
 Oct 2
 Japan             25KT       H2 Nov               Maruzen   $0 to discount     
   
 
 Oct 1
 Japan             25KT       H1 Nov               Idemitsu   almost flat
       
 Sept 26
 Taiwan    frn     NA         Oct 25 to Nov 25     CPC        minus $2.00
 S Korea         50KT-75KT    H2 Nov               Lotte      +$2.50
 Japan             25KT       H1 Nov               Mitsui     minus $1.00
       
 Sept 25
 Malaysia          50KT       Nov 16-20            Titan      minus $2
    
 Sept 23   
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Nov               KPIC       +$4.50 
    
 Sept 12
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Nov               LG Chem    +$4.50 to +$5.50
                   25KT       H2 Oct               LG Chem    +$4.50 to +$5.50
       
 Sept 10 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT      H2 Oct               Formosa   minus $1 to $3
    
 Sept 6
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Oct               Lotte     +$1.50 
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Sept 5
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Oct               LG Chem   +$1.00 to +$1.50
 Malaysia          30KT       H2 Oct               Titan     minus $6.00 
       
 Sept 4
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Oct               YNCC      +$0.50
    
 Sept 2 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Oct               LG Chem   minus 50 cents
                                                   (Daesan) 
                   25KT       H1 Oct               LG Chem   minus $1.00 
                                                   (Yeosu) 
 Sept 1
 Taiwan  (frn)  over 35KT    Sept 25-Oct 20         CPC      minus $1-$3  
         (heavy)   35KT      Oct 1-20               CPC      +$40ish 
        
 Aug 29
 S Korea        25KT-50KT     H2 Oct               Lotte     flat
 Taiwan    osn  up to 150KT   H1 Oct               Formosa   minus $2 to $4   
    
 Aug 27 
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H1 Oct               YNCC      flat 
      
 Aug 20 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Oct               Lotte     +$2.75
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Sept              Lotte     +$2.00
    
 Aug 16 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sept              LG Chem   +$3.75
                                                   (Daesan)
 Aug 15 
 Taiwan    osn     60KT-80KT  H2 Sept              Formosa   slight discount
 
 Aug 13 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sept              YNCC      +$3.00
 S Korea heavy frn 25KT       H2 Sept              Samsung   +$5ish
    
 Aug 12 
 Japan     osn     25KT       H2 Sept              Mitsui    +$4ish
                                                   (Chiba) 
 Aug 7 
 Taiwan    frn     NA         Sept 10-30           CPC       +$2.00       
           heavy   NA         Sept 10-30           CPC       +$40s
    
 Aug 5 
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H2 Sept              Lotte     +$7.00
                                                   (Daesan)
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Sept              Samsung   +$5.00 to $6.00
     
 Aug 2 
 S Korea           50KT       H1 Sept              LG        +$4ish
    
 Aug 1 
 Malaysia          50KT       H2 Sept              Titan     +$2.00 
    
 July 31 
 Taiwan    osn     50KT       H1 Sept              Formosa   slight discount
    
 July 30 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Sept              Samsung   +$6.50
 
 July 26 
 Japan             25KT       H1 Sept              Mitsui    +$5.00 to +$6.00
    
 July 25   frn     25KT       Sept                 Lotte     +$7.00
                                                   (Daesan)
 July 22
 S Korea           50KT-75KT  H1 Sept              LG Chem   +$6.50 to +$7.00
                                                  
 July 16 
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Aug               Lotte     +$7 to +$8 
                   25KT       H1 Sept              Lotte     +$7 to +$8         
     
     
 July 12 
 Taiwan    osn  50KT-100KT  Aug 16-Sept 5          Formosa   +$1 to +$2
       
 July 9 
 Japan             25KT       Aug                  Idemitsu  +$7.00 to +$8.00
 S Korea       at least 25KT  H2 Aug               Lotte     from +$5.00
    
 July 4
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Aug               YNCC      +$4.50 
 Taiwan    osn  100KT-150KT   Aug 1-31             Formosa   slight discount
                                                             to slight premium 
 
 July 3
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Aug               Lotte Chem +$4.50   
       
 July 2 
 Taiwan    heavy   NA         Aug                  Formosa    NA
       
 July 1 
 S Korea        25KT-50KT     H1 Aug               LG Chem    +$1.50 
  
 June 27 
 Taiwan    frn  over 35KT     Aug 1-20             CPC        +$3.50
           Heavy   NA         Aug 1-20             CPC        NA
    
 June 26   
 S Korea           50KT       H1 Aug               Lotte     +$2.00
 
 June 24   
 Taiwan    osn     150KT      July-Aug             Formosa   flat to +$1
    
 June 21 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Aug               Lotte     +$2 to +$3
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Aug               Samsung   +$3.00     
    
 June 18
 S Korea   frn     25KT       H2 July              Lotte     +$3
    
 June 17
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 July              LG Chem   +$0.5 to +$1
    
 June 14
 Taiwan    osn     75-100KT   July                Formosa   ard -$2.50
    
 June 12
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 July              YNCC      +$1.00
 
 June 11   
 S Korea   frn     75KT       H2 July              Lotte     +$3.50 to $4.00
                                               (Yeosu/Daesan) 
 Malaysia  frn     55KT       July 11-15           Titan     -$0.50
 
 May 31    
 S Korea   osn/frn 75KT       H1 July              Lotte     +$8 to +$10
                                               (Yeosu/Daesan)
 May 28 
 S Korea           75KT       H1 July              LG Chem   +$10.00   
    
 May 27 
 S Korea  osn/frn  75KT       H1 July              Lotte     +$10.00  
 
 May 21 
 S Korea   osn     50KT-75KT  H2 June              LG Chem   +$8.00-$9.00   
                                                  (Daesan)       
 May 20 
 S Korea   frn     25KT       H2 June              Lotte     +$9 
                                                  (Daesan) 
    
 May 15 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 June              Lotte     +$10  
                                                  (Daesan)
 May 14 
 S Korea           75KT       H2 June              YNCC      +$9.00
                                                 
 May 10            
 S Korea           50KT       H2 June              LG Chem   +$8.00/+$8.50
                                                (Yeosu/Daesan)(30 days)
 May 7 
 Malaysia          30KT       H2 June              Titan     minus $0.50
                                                             (45 days)   
 May 6 
 S Korea           50KT       H1 June              LG Chem   +$7.00 
                                                   (Daesan)
 May 1
 Taiwan    heavy   30KT       June 1-25            CPC       +$35.00
           frn     30KT       June 1-25            CPC       +$7.00     
 
 April 30 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 June              Lotte     +$8.50
                                                   (Yeosu)
 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 June              Samsung   +$10.00   
 
 April 29
 Taiwan    osn     50KT       H1 June              Formosa   +$7.00
    
 April 23 
 S Korea           75KT       H1 June              YNCC      +$12
       
 April 17 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 May               YNCC      +$10.00
    
 April 16 
 Japan             25KT       H2 May               Mitsui    +$11
    
 April 10
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 May               Lotte     +$17.50     
                                                   (Daesan)
 April 9 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 May               YNCC      +$18.00
    
 April 8 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       May 8-23             LG Chem   +$20-$22
 April 2
 Taiwan    heavy   30KT       May 1-25             CPC       +$50-something 
           frn     30KT       May 1-25             CPC       +$16 to +$17       
                                        (Daesan)
 April 1
 S Korea   osn     50KT-75KT  H2 May               Lotte     +$22.00
 
 March 28 
 Taiwan    osn     50KT-100KT H1 May               Formosa   +$18 to +$19
             
 March 27
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 May               Lotte     +$23 to +$24
                                                  (Yeosu + Daesan)
 March 21
 S Korea           30KT-60KT  April-May            LG Chem   $22           
       
 March 15 
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       May 3-9              Titan     $9.75        
                   
 March 13 
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H2 April             Lotte     $26.00
 
 March 12
 S Korea   hvy frn 25K        H2 April             Samsung  +$33 to +$34
    
 March 8 
 S Korea           25KT       H2 April             Lotte     +$26
 
 March 7 
 S Korea           50KT       H1/H2 April          LG Chem   +$23.50-$24.00
                                                   (Yeosu)
 March 6 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 April             Samsung   +$24 
 Taiwan    frn    over 30KT   April 1-30           CPC       +$23   
 
 March 4 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 April             Lotte     +$29   
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Feb 25
 Taiwan    osn     50KT-90KT  H1 April             Formosa   +$23-$25
    
 Feb 20 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 April             Lotte     +$34.50
                                                   (Yeosu)
 
           osn     25KT       H1 April             Lotte     +$35.50
                                                   (Daesan)
 Feb 19 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 April             Samsung   slightly below+$40
    
 Feb 15
 S Korea           25KT       H1 April             LG Chem   +$39.00
                                                   (Daesan)
 
 S Korea           25KT  End March-H1 April        LG Chem   +$37.50
                                                   (Yeosu)
 
 Feb 14
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 March    NA       Lotte     +$36.50
 
 Feb 7 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT      H2 March    NA       Formosa   +$24.00
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 March    NA       YNCC      +$35.00
       
 Feb 5
 S Korea           75KT       H2 March             Lotte     +$34.00
                                                  (Yeosu) 
 Malaysia          30KT       H2 March             Titan     +$34.00
 
 Jan 30 
 S Korea           50KT       H1 March    NA       YNCC      +$22.00
 S Korea           25KT       H1 March    NA       LG Chem   +$22.50
 S Korea           25KT       H2 March    NA       LG Chem   +$15.00
                                                             (45 days)       
 Jan 29 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 March    NA       Samsung   +$23-$24
 Taiwan           150KT       H1 March    NA       Formosa   +$14-$17   
    
 Jan 23
 S Korea       at least 25KT  H1 March    NA       LG Chem   +$11.50    
                                                             (45 days)
 Jan 22 
 Malaysia          80KT       H1 March    NA       Titan    over +$15      
 
 Jan 17 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 March    NA       Samsung   +$9-$10
                                                             (45 days)
 Jan 15 
 S Korea   osn     50KT   Feb 24-March 7  NA       LG Chem   +$8-$10
                                           (Yeosu + Daesan)  (45-day pricing)
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total           710KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
         
 Jan 21    
 Malaysia          30KT       H2 Feb      NA       Titan    over +$10
 
 Jan 21 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Feb      NA       Samsung   +$18.50-$19.00 
  
 Jan 14 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT      H2 Feb      NA       Formosa   +$9-$10
    
 Jan 11
 Japan             25KT       H2 Feb      NA       Mitsui   Below +$20        
    
 Jan 9 2013 
 Japan             25KT       H2 Feb      NA       Mitsui    +$21-$22
 S Korea         50KT-75KT    H2 Feb      NA       Lotte     +$17.00-$17.50   
                                             (previously Honam)
 Jan 4 2013
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Feb      NA       Honam     +$16.50   
                                                   (Yeosu)
                   50KT       H2 Feb      NA       Honam     +$17.00
                                                   (Daesan)
 Jan 3 2013     
 Taiwan    osn  100KT-150KT   H1 Feb      NA       Formosa   +$12-$13
 
 2012      
 Dec 28 
 Taiwan    frn     75KT       Feb         NA       CPC       +$11-$13
 
 Dec 21 
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H1 Feb      NA       Honam     +$16.00-$16.50   
                                                  (Daesan)
                    50KT      H1 Feb      NA       LG Chem   +$15.50-$16.00 
                                                   (Yeosu)
                    25KT      H1 Feb      NA       LG Chem   +$15.50-$16.00
                                                   (Daesan)
 Dec 20                                           
 S Korea           100KT      H1 Feb      NA       YNCC      +$16.00     
 
 Dec 18 
 Taiwan    osn  100KT-150KT   Jan 21-Feb 5         Formosa  +$11-$12 
    
 Dec 14 
 Malaysia          30KT       Feb 1-2     NA       Titan     +$10
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total         910KT-1035KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------   
 Dec 17 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Jan      NA       Honam     +$14.00
 
 Dec 13 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Jan      NA       LG Chem   +$15.00-$15.50
    
 Dec 12 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Jan      NA       YNCC      +$16.00
 
 Dec 10 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Jan      NA       Honam     +$16.50-$17.00
 
 Dec 6
 Malaysia          50KT       H2 Jan      Shell    Titan     +$11.00
    
 Dec 5
 S Korea           55KT       H1 Jan      NA       Honam     +$12.00-12.75
                                    (Daesan)
 Dec 4
 S Korea          25KT        H2 Jan      NA       Samsung   +$13-$14 
 
 Nov 30
 S Korea          75KT        H1Jan                YNCC      +$8.50-9.00
    
 Nov 29
 S Korea At least 50KT        H1 Jan      NA       LG Chem   +$8.50
                                    (Yeosu+Daesan)
 Nov 28
 S Korea        125-150KT    H1 Jan      NA        Honam     around +$9.50
                                                (Yeosu/Daesan)
 Nov 21                                   
 Malaysia          50KT       H1 Jan 2013 NA       Titan     +$10
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for January 2013      705KT-730KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------        
 Nov 21
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Dec      NA       Honam     +$15-$16
                                                  (Yeosu)       
 
 Nov 15 
 Taiwan    osn   100KT-120KT  H2 Dec      NA       Formosa   +$14
 
 Nov 14 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Dec      NA       Honam     +$20   
                                               (Yeosu+Daesan)
 Nov 7 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Dec      NA       Honam     +$22.50-$23.00
                                               (Yeosu+Daesan)
 Nov 2             
 S Korea            50KT       H1 Dec      NA        Honam     +$22.00-$23.00
                                (Yeosu+Daesan)
 
 Oct 30
 Taiwan    osn     150KT      H1 Dec      NA       Formosa   +$14-$15
           
 Oct 29 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Dec      NA       LG Chem   +$20.00
 
 Oct 26 
 Taiwan    heavy   60KT       Dec         NA       CPC        NA
 
 Oct 23  
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Dec      NA       Honam     +$18.50
                                                   (Daesan)
 Oct 22      
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Dec      NA       LG Chem   +$17.50
                                                   (Daesan) 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for Dec   610KT-630KT 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Oct 19
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Nov     NA        Honam     +$17.50
    
 Oct 16
 S Korea         50KT-75KT    H2 Nov      NA       Honam     +16.50
                                              (Yeosu + Daesan)
 Oct 15
 S Korea          50KT       H2 Nov      NA       LG Chem     +$14.50
                                  (Daesan)      
 Oct 12 
 S Korea           75KT       H2 Nov      NA       YNCC      +$13.50-$14.50
    
 Oct 10 
 S Korea           75KT       H2 Nov      NA       Honam     +$13-$14
                                                  (Daesan)   
    
 Taiwan          75KT        Nov      NA        Formosa     +$11-$12
    
 Oct 9 
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Nov      NA       LG Chem   +$12-$13
    
 Oct 9 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Nov      NA       LG Chem   +$11-12
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Sept 28
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Nov      NA       Honam     NA
    
 Sept 25 
 S Korean  osn     50KT       H1 Nov      NA       LG Chem  +$10.50-$11.00
                                                  (Yeosu + Daesan)
 Sept 24
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H1 Nov      NA       YNCC     +$10.50
        
 Sept 20
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Nov      NA       Honam    +$10.50
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for Nov  600KT-625KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
    
 Sept 14
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Oct      NA       Samsung   +$15 
 
 Sept 7
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Oct      NA       Honam     +$17.50-$18.00
                                                  (Yeosu + Daesan)    
 Sept 3-7 week 
 Taiwan   osn      150KT      Oct         NA       Formosa    NA
    
 Sept 5 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Oct      NA       LG Chem   +$18.50-$19.00
                                               (Yeosu + Daesan)
 Sept 3
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Oct      NA       Honam     +$11.50  
                                                  (Yeosu)
 Aug 31
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Oct      NA       LG Chem   +$9.50
    
 Aug 29 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Oct      NA       Honam     +$9.50-$10.00   
                                                  (Daesan)
 Aug 28 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Oct      NA       KPIC      NA
 
 Aug 27
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Oct      NA       LG Chem   +$8.00
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Oct      NA       Samsung   +$8-$9   
    
    
 Aug 23
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H1 Oct      NA       Honam     +$2.00
                                               (Daesan+Yeosu)
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for October 650KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
    
 Aug 21
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sept     NA       LG Chem   -$1.50-$2.00
                                               (Daesan+Yeosu)(30 days)
 Aug 16                                        
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Sep      NA       Honam     -$0.50
                                                  (Yeosu)
 Aug 8 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Sep      NA       YNCC      +$5.00
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H2 Sep      NA       Titan     -$1.00
       
 Aug 7 
 S Korea   osn   50KT-75KT    H2 Sep      NA       LG Chem   +$6.50
                                                   (Daesan)  (30 days)
 Aug 6   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Sep      NA       Honam     +$4.50
                                                  (Daesan)   (30 days)
                   25KT       H2 Sep      NA       Honam     +$4.50 
                                                  (Daesan)   (45 days)
                   25KT       H2 Sep      NA       Honam     +$6.50
                                                  (Daesan)   
 Aug 3     
 Taiwan    frn     30KT       H1 Sep      NA       CPC       +$1-$3 
    
July 31  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Sep      NA       Honam     +$2.00
                                               (Yeosu/Daesan)
 July 25
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Sep      NA       Honam   +$4.50   
                                                  (Daesan) (45 days)
 July 18
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Sep      NA       LG Chem   +$7.00   
                                                  (Yeosu)   (45 days)
 July 12 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Sep      NA       Honam     +$5.00-$5.50     
                                                  (Yeosu)    (45 days)
           osn     25KT       H1 Sep      NA       Honam     +$5.00-$5.50   
                                                  (Daesan)   (45 days)
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total for September 485KT-510KT
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------      
 July 19 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Aug      NA       Honam      +12.50
                                                (Yeosu+Daesan) 
 July 17 
 Malaysia          30KT       H2 Aug      NA       Titan     Below +$3.00      
 Japan     osn     25KT       H2 Aug      NA       Mitsui Chem  NA
 
 July 12   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Aug      NA       Honam     +$8.00
                                                   (Yeosu)   (30 days)    
 July 11
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H1/H2 Aug   NA       YNCC      +$8.50
                                                             (30 days)    
 July 10 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Aug      NA       LG Chem   +$7.50 
                                                   (Yeosu)   (30 days)
 July 9 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Aug      NA       Honam     +$4.00
                                               (Yeosu/Daesan)(45 days formula)
 July 5 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Aug      NA       Honam     +$2.00 
                                                  (Yeosu)    (45 days formula)
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug      NA       Honam     +$4.00
                                                  (Yeosu)
 July 3
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug      NA       LG Chem   +$3.50   
                                                  (Daesan)
 Malaysia          30KT       H1 Aug      NA       Titan     flat to +$2
       
 July 2
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug      NA       Honam     +$2.00
                                                  (Yeosu)         
 June 27 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug      NA       LG Chem   flat
                                                  (Yeosu)
           osn     25KT       H1 Aug      NA       LG Chem   +$1.00-$1.50
                                                  (Daesan)
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H1 Aug      NA       Titan     -$2.50   
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for August  515KT
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------     
 
 June 25 
 Malaysia  (light) 30KT       H2 July     NA       Titan     -$2.65  
 S Korea           25KTx2     H2 July     NA       Honam     -$1.00/-$1.50
                                               (Daesan/Yeosu)         
 June 8
 S Korea           50KT       H1 July     NA       Honam     flat-slight premium
    
 June 6
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 July     NA       YNCC      +$1.50-$2.00
    
 June 4    
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 July     NA       Honam     +$3.50-$4.50
 
 May 31
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 July     NA       Idemitsu  +$8-$9
    
 May 22
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 July     NA       Honam     +$5.00
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------   
 Total             280KT
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 May 11 
 Taiwan    N+A     30KT       H2 June     NA       Formosa   +$20s
    
 May 9 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 June     NA       Honam    +$9.50
                                                  (Daesan)  (45 days)
 April 27
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H1 June     NA       Titan     +$17
    
 April 26 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 June     NA       LG Chem   +$20
    
 April 25 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 June     NA       Samsung   +$20.50-$21.50
                                                   Total
 S Korea           25KT (min) H1 June     NA       YNCC      +$20
 S Korea           25KT (min) H1 June     NA       Honam     +$20   
    
 April 24
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H1 June     NA       LG Chem   +20.50-$21.50
                                                (Yeosu+Daesan)    
 April 23
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 June     NA       Honam     +$20.50
                                                  (Daesan)
 April 19 
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H1 June     NA       Titan     +$17
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total             315KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
          
 April 16 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 May      NA       Honam     +$20.50-$21
 
 April 13 
 Japan     osn     50KT       H2 May      NA       Idemitsu  +$22.00
    
 April 12
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H2 May      NA       Titan     +$13.00
    
 April 11
 Taiwan    osn   100KT-125KT  H2 May      NA       Formosa   +$16.50-$17.00
      
 April 10  
 S Korea   osn   75KT-100KT   H2 May      NA       LG Chem   +$19-$19.50
                                                (Yeosu/Daesan)
 April 9 
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H2 May      NA       Honam     +$17.50-$18.50 
                                                (Yeosu+Daesan)                  
   
 April 4 
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       Mid May     NA       Titan     +$15
    
 April 2 
 Taiwan    frn     55KT       H2 May      NA       CPC       +$9-$13
 
 March 30 
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 May      NA       Idemitsu  above +$20   
    
 March 28 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 May      NA       LG Chem   +$18.75
                                                             (Yeosu)
           osn     25KT       H1 May      NA       LG Chem   +$19.25
                                                             (Daesan)
 March 27   
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H1 May      NA       YNCC      +$19.50-$19.75     
  
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H1 May      NA       Titan     +$13
 
 March 23 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 May      NA       Samsung   +$22
    
 March 22
 Taiwan    osn  100KT-150KT   H1 May      NA       Formosa   +$21-$23
           
 March 14 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 May      NA       Honam     +$17-$17.50
                                                   (Yeosu)
           osn     25KT       H1 May      NA       Honam     +$17-$17.50
                                                   (Daesan)
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total for May   895KT-995KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 March 16 
 Taiwan    osn   50KT-75KT    H2 April    NA       Formosa   +$25-$28
 
 March 8 
 Taiwan    osn   100KT-120KT  H2 April     NA      Formosa   +$16-$23
           frn     50KT       H2 April     NA      CPC       +$20-25
 
 March 6 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 April     NA      Honam     +$18.50
                                                  (Daesan)   (45 days)
 March 2 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 April     NA      LG Chem  +$19-$20 
                                                            (45 days)
 Feb 28 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 April     NA      Honam    +$18.00
                                                  (Yeosu)   (45 days) 
                   25KT       H2 April     NA      Honam    +$18.00
                                                  (Daesan)  (45 days)
 
 Malaysia          30KT       mid-April    NA      Titan     NA    
 
 Feb 24 
 S Korea        22.5-32.0KT   H2 April     NA      KPIC      NA
 
 Feb 23    
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 April     NA      Honam    +$16-$18
                                                  (Yeosu)   (45 days)
           osn     25KT       H1 April     NA      Honam    +$16-$18
                                                  (Daesan)  (45 days)
 
 Taiwan    osn     100KT      H1 April     NA     Formosa   +$14-$20
 
 Malaysia  frn     30KT       H1 April     NA     Titan     +$20.00  
 
 Feb 20
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 April     NA      Mitsui    +$25 
 
 Feb 13 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 April     NA      Honam    +$11-$12
                                                   (Daesan)  (45 days)
    
 Feb 9 
 Taiwan    osn    100KT     March 16-April 5       Formosa  +$11-$14
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for mid-March, April  757.5KT-812KT 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Feb 15
 Japan     osn    25KT        H2 March     NA      Mitsui    +$25 
 
 Feb 14 
 S Korea   osn    25KT        H2 March     NA      LG Chem   +$20.00
                                                   (Yeosu)
 Feb 13 
 S Korea   osn    25KT        H2 March     NA      Honam     +$19.00
                                                   (Daesan) 
 Malaysia  frn    30KT        H2 March     NA      Titan     +$10.50
    
 Feb 3             
 S Korea   osn    75KT       H2 March    NA        Honam     +$8.50
 S Korea   osn    25KT       H1 March    NA        Honam     +$8.50
    
 Feb 2             
 S Korea          75KT       H2 March    NA        LG Chem   +$7/+$8
                                                           (Yeosu/Daesan)
 Feb 1 
 Taiwan    osn    100KT      March 11-25 NA        Formosa    +$4.00 
    
 Jan 27 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 March    NA        YNCC       +$8.00
 
 Jan 26 
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 March    NA        Honam       +$7.00   
 
 Jan 19 
 S Korea           25KT       H1 March    NA        Honam       +$4.00
 Japan             50KT       H1 March    NA        Mitsui Chem +$4.00-$5.00
 Taiwan    osn     75KT       Feb 25-March 10       Formosa     flat to +$1.00
      
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for End Feb, March  630KT
 ------------------------------------------------------------------  
 Jan 19 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Feb     NA        Honam     +$8.00
       
 Jan 18 
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Feb    NA        LG Chem   +$8.50            
                                                  (Daesan)
 Jan 13
 Taiwan    frn     55KT       Feb 10-25 NA        CPC       +$5-$7
 
 Jan 11
 S Korea           75KT       H2 Feb    NA        Honam     +$8.00
                                                  (Daesan)
 Jan 10 
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Feb    NA        LG Chem   +8.50
                                                  (Daesan/Yeosu)
 Jan 9
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Feb    NA        YNCC      +$7.50
 
 Jan 5
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Feb    NA        Samsung   +$8 
 
 Jan 4 
 Taiwan            100KT      mid-Feb   NA        Formosa   +$3
 Malaysia  frn     25KT       Feb 14-18 NA        Titan     +$3
    
 Jan 3
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Feb    NA        Honam     +$8
                                                 (Daesan + Yeosu)
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Feb    NA        YNCC      NA 
 
 2011   
 Dec 27            
 S Korea           50KT       H1 Feb    NA        Honam     +$10 
                                                 (Daesan)
 Dec 22            
 S Korea           25KT       H1 Feb    NA        LG Chem   +$9.50   
                                                  (Yeosu)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for Feb    600KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
    
 Dec 14
 Taiwan            200KT      H2 Jan     NA       Formosa   +$3.00
 
 Dec 13
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Jan     NA       Honam     +$6.00       
 
 Dec 9 
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Jan     NA       LG Chem   +$5.00
         
 Dec 1  
 S Korea   na      25KT       H1 Jan     NA     Samsung  parity to   
                                                         slight  discount  
 Nov 30   
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H1 Jan     NA     YNCC     -$1.00  
      
 Nov 29   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Jan     NA     LG Chem   -$1.00  
                                                (Daesan)  
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Jan     NA     Honam     slight discount  
                                                (Yeosu)  
           osn     25KT       H1 Jan     NA     Honam     NA  
                                                (Daesan)  
 Nov 28   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Jan     NA     Samsung   -$0.25-$0.50  
  
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for Jan    525KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Nov 23  
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Dec     NA     Honam     slight discount  
   
 Nov 22  
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 Dec     NA     YNCC     -$2.00  
   
 Nov 15   
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Dec     NA     Honam     -$3.00  
                                                          (Daesan)  
 Nov 11  
 Japan     frn     25KT       H2 Dec     NA     Idemitsu  +$1.50  
      
 Nov 9   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Dec     NA     Honam     -$1.50  
                                                          (Daesan)  
 Nov 2  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Dec     NA     Honam     -$1.25   
                                                           (Daesan)  
 Nov 1               
 S Korea           50KT       H1 Dec     NA     LG Chem   -$1.25/NA  
                                             (Daesan/Yeosu)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Total for Dec    300KT
 ----------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                          
 Oct 19   
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Nov     NA     LG Chem   slight premium  
   
 Oct 17   
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H2 Nov     NA     Honam     +$1.25/+$2.00  
                                                          (Yeosu/Daesan)  
 Oct 14  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Nov     NA     YNCC      +$1.75  
    
 Oct 13   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Nov     NA     Samsung   +$2.00-$3.00    
 Japan     osn   25KT-50KT    H2 Nov     NA   Mitsui Chem +2.00  
       
 Oct 6   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Nov     NA     YNCC      +$1.00  
   
 Oct 5  
 Malaysia          25KT       Nov        NA     Titan     -$2.75  
   
 Oct 4       
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Nov     NA     Honam     +$3.75/$4.00  
                                                          (Yeosu/Daesan)  
 Sept 15  
 S Korea pure osn  25KT       H2 Oct     NA     Samsung   +$4.00  
 S Korea   osn    50-75KT     H2 Oct     NA     LG Chem   +$6.50-$7.00  
   
 Aug 23   
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H1 Oct     NA     LG Chem   +$4.00-$5.00  
      
 Aug 17   
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sep     NA     Honam     +$2.00  
      
 Aug 16  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sep     NA      YNCC     +$1.00  
      
 Aug 4   
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 Sep    NA      LG Chem   +$0.50-$1.00  
   
 Aug 2   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Sep    NA      Samsung    -$0.50  
   
 July 29            
 S Korea           100KT      H1 Sep    NA      YNCC       -$1.00  
   
 July 26   
 S Korea           50KT       H1 Sep    NA      Honam   -$0.50-$1.00   
   
 July 18  
 S Korea           50KT       H2 Aug    NA      Honam      -$3.50  
         
 July 14   
 S Korea   osn  75KT-100KT    H2 Aug    NA      LG Chem    -$3.00-$3.50  
  
 July 13  
 S Korea          100KT       H2 Aug    NA      YNCC       -$3.00  
      
 July 11  
 S Korea   osn  22.5-30KT     H2 Aug    NA      KPIC       flat  
         
 July 8      
 S Korea           25KT       H2 Aug    NA      GS Caltex  NA  
      
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug    NA      Samsung    -$1.00  
   
 July 5  
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug    NA      Samsung    -$3.00   
   
 July 4  
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H1 Aug    NA      Honam      -$3.00  
                                               (Daesan)  
 July 1   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug    NA      Samsung    -$3.00  
      
 June 30     
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 Aug    NA      Samsung    -$3.00  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 Aug    NA      YNCC       -$3.50  
 Malaysia  frn   25KT-30KT    mid-Aug   NA      Titan      -$5.00  
  
 June 28   
 S Korea   osn   50KT-75KT    H1 Aug    NA      LG Chem   -$2.50-$3.00  
      
 June 23  
 Taiwan   frn      30KT       August    NA      CPC       -$4.00-$6.00  
 June 22  
 S Korea           50KT       H2 July   NA      LG Chem   -$2.50-$3.00  
       
 June 21             
 S Korea   osn     75KT       H2 July   NA      Honam      -$3.00  
   
 June 16   
 S Korea           50KT       H2 July   NA      Honam  -$3.50-$4.00  
    
 June 15     
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 July   NA      LG Chem    -$5.00  
      
 June 10     
 Taiwan    heavy   60KT       August    NA      CPC        +$1-$3  
      
 June 9      
 S Korea   osn  25KT-50KT     H1 July   NA      Honam      -$3.00  
   
 June 2   
 S Korea      at least 25KT   H1 July   NA      Honam      -$2.50   
         
 June 1  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 July   NA      LG Chem    -$3.00   
      
 May 26  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 July   NA      YNCC      +$1.50  
 Taiwan    heavy   30KT       July      NA      CPC       +$3-$6  
      
 May 25   
 Japan             25KT       H1 July   NA      Idemitsu  +$5.00  
   
 May 23   
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 July   NA      Mitsui    +$3.00  
                                                Chem (45-days formula)  
   
 May 3             50KT       H1 June   NA      Honam     +$17/+19/+$21  
   
 April 29  
 Taiwan    frn     35KT       June      NA      CPC       +$7 to +$10  
   
 April 28   
 Taiwan          100-150KT    H1 June   NA      Formosa   +$11 to +$13  
 S Korea  osn     50-75KT     H1 June   NA      YNCC      +15.50/+$18/+$20    
   
 April 18  
 Taiwan           90KT-100Kt  H2 May    NA      Formosa    +$6.00  
   
 April 14   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 May    NA      Samsung   
                                                Total    above +$10  
 April 13  
 Japan             25KT       H1 May    NA      Mitsui Chem NA  
          
 April 7   
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H2 May    NA      Honam    +$10-$11  
   
 April 6   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 May    NA      Honam    $8.00-$9.00   
                                               (Daesan)                         
                                               
 Taiwan          25KT-30KT    H1 May    NA      Formosa  below +$4.50  
  
 April 5  
 Japan     frn     25KT       H1 May    NA      Idemitsu   +$9.50-$10.00  
                                                             
 April 4     
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 May    NA      YNCC       +$5.50  
   
 April 1   
 Taiwan    frn   30KT-55KT    H2 May    NA       CPC       +$3-$4  
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 May    NA   Samsung Total +$8.00  
  
 March 31  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 May    NA      LG Chem   +$6.50/+$7.00  
                                                          (Yeosu/Daesan)  
 March 29  
 Taiwan    osn    150KT       H1 May    NA      Formosa   +$3.50-$4.50  
   
 March 25   
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H1 May    NA      Honam     +$10.50   
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H1 May    NA      LG Chem   +$10.50   
       
 March 22  
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H2 April  NA      Honam     +$9.00-$9.50  
   
 March 10  
 Taiwan           150KT       H2 April  NA      Formosa   +$5.50  
                                                      and +$7.00-$9.00  
 S Korea           50KT       H2 April          Honam     +$11.50-$13.50        
 
   
 March 9     
 S Korea   frn   above 50KT   H2 April  NA      LG Chem   +$9.50-$10.50  
      
 March 1   
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 April   NA     Maruzen   above +$7.00  
 Japan     osn     50KT       H2 April   NA     Maruzen   +$5.00-$6.00  
   
 Feb 23  
 Taiwan          150-200KT    H1 April   NA     Formosa   +$0.50-$1.00  
 S Korea         100KT        H1 April   NA     Honam     +$2.75  
      
 Feb 22              
 S Korea           75KT       H1 April   NA     YNCC      +$2.00 to +$6.00  
                                                     (Depending on grades)      
                                          
 Feb 16   
 S Korea           25KT       H2 March   NA     Samsung   below +$4  
                                                Total   
 Feb 15  
 S Korea          25-50KT     H2 March   NA     Honam     +$4.00  
 S Korea           25KT       H2 March   NA     LG Chem   +$4.00      
              
 Feb 11  
 Taiwan            100KT      H2 March   NA     Formosa   +$2.00-$2.50  
                              to early April  
 Feb 10   
 Japan             25KT       H2 March   NA     Idemitsu above+$6.00  
   
 Feb 9  
 Japan     osn     25-50KT    H2 March   NA     Mitsui Chem +$5.00-$6.00  
 Japan     osn     25KT       H2 March   NA     Maruzen    +$5.00-$6.00  
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H2 March   NA     Honam      +$8.00-$8.50  
   
 Feb 8   
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H1 March   NA  Samsung Total +$7-$8  
      
 Jan 28   
 Taiwan    frn     50KT       H2 March   NA     CPC        +$3-$4  
   
 Jan 27   
 S Korea   osn     50KT       H1 March   NA     LG Chem    NA  
 Taiwan    N+A     30KT       March      NA     CPC        +$7.00  
      
 Jan 26   
 Japan     osn     25KT       H1 March   NA     Idemitsu    +$7.00  
 S Korea           75KT       H1 March   NA     YNCC  +$4.50/+$6.50/+$8.50  
                                                (Depending on grades)           
          
 Jan 25  
 S Korea   frn     25KT       H1 March   NA     Honam      +$9-$10  
   
 Jan 24   
 Taiwan            150KT      H1 March   NA     Formosa    +$4.00  
 S Korea           75KT       H1 March   NA     LG Chem    +$6.00  
   
 Jan 20  
 S Korea   osn     25KT       H2 Feb     NA     Honam      +$6-$7   
   
 Jan 19   
 Malaysia          60-70kt    H1 March    NA     Titan      +$6.00     
   
 Jan 17   
 Japan             25KT       H2 Feb     NA     Maruzen    +$6.00  
      
 Jan 13      
 S Korea   osn     125KT      H2 Feb     NA     LG Chem  +$4.25-$4.75  
    
 Jan 12   
 S Korea   osn     100KT      H2 Feb     NA     YNCC      +$5.00  
   
 Jan 6       
 S Korea   frn     50KT       H2 Feb     NA     Honam     +$12-$14  
   
 Jan 5   
 Taiwan    frn     30KT       H2 Feb     NA      CPC      +$9-$10  
 Malaysia          25KT       H2 Feb     NA      Titan    +$9.00  
      
 
 NOTE. All prices are on a delivered cif basis at a differential
 to Japanese open-spec naphtha quotes unless otherwise noted.
 (Asia Energy Desk)
Released: 2014-10-28T11:03:26.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas0097d
UPDATE 1-LG Elec exit suggests end is near for plasma TVs
339 words
28 October 2014
04:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* LG Electronics says to wind down plasma TV business by end-Nov
* Plasma TV in long decline as LCD TVs became mainstream (Updates with comments, details on plasma)
SEOUL, Oct 28 (Reuters) - South Korea's LG Electronics Inc said it will wind down its plasma television business by end-November, as a technology long overtaken by liquid crystal display takes one step closer to its demise.
LG Electronics said in a regulatory filing on Tuesday that the decision reflects a decline in demand for plasma TVs, with the business accounting for 2.4 percent of its 2013 annual revenue. The exit was widely anticipated as LCD TVs have become the mainstay in global markets.
"We wanted to keep it going as long as we could," LG spokesman Ken Hong told Reuters, noting that LG Electronics has been making its own plasma panels. "No matter how much we try to keep it going it's just not a business anymore."
Analysts said plasma displays were technically unable to catch up to the advances in screen resolutions, and it also consumed more power and generated more heat than LCD.
"All those factors combined to push industry players to concentrate on LCD technology," said Seoul-based IBK Securities analyst Eo Kyu-jin.
Market research firm NPD DisplaySearch said in July that global plasma TV shipments will fall to 500,000 in 2015 from 5.2 million in 2014, all but disappearing from the market.
Japan's Panasonic Corp said in October last year that it would pull out of the plasma TV business. Once LG exits, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd would be the last major player.
Samsung says it plans to continue making plasma TVs but declined to say where it would get the plasma panels once sister company Samsung SDI Co Ltd pulls out of the business by end-November. (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Ryan Woo) 
Released: 2014-10-28T10:29:58.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas008e6
 The Morning Ledger: The Opposite of Share Dilution, and a Pay Boost to Boot
CFO Report, 05:27, 28 October 2014, 2636 words, By James Willhite, (English)
The Morning Ledger from CFO Journal cues up the most important news in corporate finance every weekday morning. Send us tips, suggestions and complaints:?james.willhite@wsj.com. Get The Morning Ledger emailed to you each ...
Document WCCFO00020141028eaas0005l
 Samsung Scion Seeks Further Control Over Conglomerate
WSJ Blogs, 04:32, 28 October 2014, 485 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s heir apparent, Jay Y. Lee, has registered an intention to buy small stakes in other companies in the Samsung conglomerate, a move that analysts say appears aimed at smoothing the shift of ownership of the group ...
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas001md
Asia Fuel Oil Tender -Petrolimex seeks 30KT 180-cst
9,065 words
28 October 2014
03:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds Petroliimex tender)
 For spot tender news stories, please click: 
 For tenders for other oil products, please click: 
 Naphtha Gasoline Jet/Diesel 
  
 To access the Oil Fundamentals Database, pls click: 
 http://bond.views.session.rservices.com/CE/ 
ISSUER          GRADE:              VOLUME:   DATE:            CLOSE (VALID)
*Vietnam/P'limex BUYS 180-cst, FOB SG  30KT   Nov 10-17        Oct 29/30
India/MRPL      SELLS 380-cst (NMang)   80KT  Dec 13-15        Oct 29/30
India/IOC       SELLS 380-cst (Chennai) 30KT  Nov 7-9          Oct 27
LATEST ASIA/MIDEAST FUEL OIL TENDER AWARDS/RESULTS (2014)
Taiwan/Formosa  SELLS 280-cst (Mailiao) 40KT  Nov 3-5           NA/-50
India/IOC      SELLS 180cst (Kandla) 30kt     Nov 5-7           Socar/-17
India/MRPL     SELLS 380cst (NMang)  80KT     Nov 28-30         Glencore/NA
India/Essar    SELLS VGO (Vadinar)   75KT     Nov 2-6           NA                  
Taiwan/Formosa SELLS PFO (Mailiao)   15KT     Oct 24-26         Gunvor/+32/+33
India/IOC      SELLS 380-cst (Chennai) 35KT   Oct 23-35         CAO/-9.50/-10
India/HPCL     SELLS 180-cst (Vizag)25-30KT   Oct 23-25         P66/-20
Vietnam/PV Oil BUYS 180-cst (Vung Ang) 4.5KT  Oct 15-19         NA/SG+$40
India/IOC     SELLS 380-cst (JNPT)  22-24KT   Oct 20-22         NA
India/MRPL    SELLS 380-cst (NMang) 80KT      Nov 18-20         Daewoo/NA
India/IOC     SELLS 380-cst (Chennai) 35KT    Oct 9-11          Socar/-10
India/Essar   SELLS VGO (Vadinar)   75KT      Oct 16-20         P66/NA
India/IOC     SELLS 180-cst (Kandla)35KT      Oct 15-17         Mitsui/-15
India/MRPL    SELLS 380 (NMang)     80KT      Oct 26-28         Glencore/-
Pakistan/PSO  BUYS 180-CST          5*65KT    Oct-Dec           Vitol, Bakri, PetroChina
                                                                ME+28.22-31.25
              BUYS 125-CST          10*65KT   Oct-Dec           ME+32.22-38 
              BUYS LSFO             5*60KT    Oct-Dec           BB Energy, Nimex 
                                                                ME+80.98+85.48          
India/MRPL    SELLS 380-cst         80KT      Oct 14-16         Glencore/NA
India/IOC     SELLS 380-cst         35KT      Sep 23-25         PetroSummit/-10/-11
India/IOC     SELLS 380-cst         35KT      Sep 9-11          PetroSummit/NA
India/BPCL    SELLS 380 (Cochin)    35kt      Sep 5-7           Petco/-15
India/IOC     SELLS 180 (Kandla)    30KT      Sep 2-4           Gulf Petchem/-18/-20
India/ESSAR   SELLS VGO (Vadinar)   75KT      Sep 2-6           Chevron/-
India/MRPL    SELLS 380 (NMang)     80KT      Sep 4-6           Glencore/-
India/MRPL    SELLS 380 (NMang)     80KT      Sep 27-29         Mitsui/-
              SELLS VGO (NMang)     40KT      Sep 12-14         SK Energy/-
India/IOC     SELLS 380 (Haldia)    15KT      Aug 28-30         Glencore/- 
India/IOC     SELLS 380 (Haldia)    15KT      Aug 16-18         Glencore/-
India/IOC     SELLS 180 (Mumbai)    25KT      Aug 26-28         Petco/-18.50/-19   
India/HPCL    SELLS 380 (Mumbai)    30KT      Aug 5-7           Gulf Petchem/-
India/IOC     SELLS 380 (Chennai)   30KT      Aug 7-9           STO Maldives/NA 
SKorea/EWP    BUYS HSFO (Ulsan)     50KT      Aug 16-20 del     Hyundai Corp/SG+23.69
India/IOC    SELLS 180cst (Kandla)  30KT      Aug 7-8           Glencore/-15/-16
Pakistan/PSO BUYS HSFO              65KTx6    Aug-Sep del       5xBakri,2xVitol,2xSwiss SG,
                                                                1xPetroChina/AG+27.75-30.49
             BUYS LSFO              60KTx3    Aug-Sep del       2xVitol, 1xBB Energy/
                                                                AG+114.50-115.50
SKorea/WP    BUYS HSFO              45KTx2    Aug 8-12/27-31    Hyundai Corp, Vitol/SG+28
SKorea/WP    BUYS HSFO (2.59%S)     45KT      July 28-Aug 2 del Vitol/NA
India/IOC    SELLS 380 (Chennai)    35KT      July 25-27       Socar/-12/-13
SKorea/EWP   BUYS HSFO (Ulsan)      50KT      July 27-31 del   Mercuria/+25
India/IOC    SELLs 380 (Haldia)     15KT      July 20-22       Petco/-27/-28
India/MRPL      380-cst             80KT      Aug 14-16        Mitsui/-0.75
India/BPCL   SELLS 380-cst(Cochin)  40KT      Aug 8-7          ENOC/-
India/MRPL      380-cst             80KT      Aug 1-3          Vitol/+0.20
Taiwan/Formosa  SELLS PFO           30KT      Jul 15-17        Shell/+80
SKorea/WP    BUYS HSFO (2.59%S)     45KT      July 25-29 del   cancelled
India/IOC    SELLS 380-cst (Haldia) 15KT      July 11-13       Petronas/-24/-25
India/IOC       180cst (Kandla)     30KT      July 12-14       Glencore/-15
India/MRPL      SELLS 380           80KT      July 11-13       Mitsui/-$1.10
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      July 6-8         Petronas/NA
India/BPCL      SELLS 380-cst       40KT      Jul 4-6 (Cochin) Gulf Petrochem/-
India/IOC       380-cst (Chennai)   30KT      Jul 1-3          Gulf Petchem/-12/-14
India/IOC       180cst (Kandla)     30KT      Jun 28-30        Vitol/-10/-12
Viet/Petrolimex BUYS 380           5KT       Aug 10-20 del     SG+2, FOB SG
                                    5KT       Sep 20-30 del      
                BUYS SPEC C(180cst) 30KT      Aug 1-9 del      SG+2/2.5, FOB SG
                     density 0.991  30KT      Sep 15-25 del    
                                    10KT      July 1-9 del
                                    5KT       Aug 10-20 del    
                                    5KT       Sep 20-30 del      
                BUYS SPEC A(180cst) 20KT      Jul 1-9 del      SG+19/20, FOB SG
                     density 0.97   20KT      Aug 10-20 del
                                    20KT      Sep 20-30 del
SKorea/EWP      BUYS HSFO (Ulsan)   45KT      Jun 26-30        Hyundai Corp/-0.60
                SELLS 380-cst       35KT      Jun 28-30 (Mumbai)
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS HSFO 180-cst   3*65KT    June             PetroChina/AG+30.50 each
                                    4*65KT    July             PetroChina/AG+28.50-29.25 each
                                    3*65KT    Aug              PetroChina, Bakri/AG 29.50-29.57
                BUYS LSFO 170-CST   60KT      June 4-6         Vitol/AG+155
                                    60KT      June             BB Energy/AG+127.75
                                    2*60KT    July-Aug         BB Energy/AG+120.25   
India/Essar Oil VGO (Vadinar)       75KT      Jun 21-25        Reliance/NA
India/IOC       380-cst (Chennai)   30KT      Jun 17-19        Vitol/NA
India/IOC       180cst (Mumbai)     25KT      Jun 12-14        Shell/NA
India/IOC       180cst (Kandla)     30KT      Jun 16-18        BP/-12/-13
SKorea/WP       BUYS HSFO 2.5%S     45KT      Jun 16-20        Vitol/+17.40
SKorea/EWP      BUYS HSFO (Ulsan)   45KT      Jun 6-10         Mercuria/0.80
India/Essar Oil VGO (Vadinar)       75KT      Jun 21-25        Glencore/NA
India/MRPL      SELLS 380           80KT      June 7-9         Mercuria/-$2
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 30KT      June 7-9         Glencore/-11
MEast/SASREF    SELLS LCO (Yanbu)   30KT      June 6-8         Bakri/NA
Korea/WP        BUYS HSFO 2.5%S     45KT      May 21-25        Vitol/+19.80
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  35KT      May 28-30        Petrosummit/>-18
India/IOC       SELLS     (Chennai) 35KT      May 25-27        Mitsui/
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      May 16-18        Western/-$20
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 35KT      May 8-10         Petronas/-12/-13
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (JNPT Mum)22-24KT   May 3-5          PetroDiamond/-18
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      May 13-15        Vitol/NA
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      May 3-5          Mercuria/+1.50/+1.85
India/Essar     SELLS VGO (Vadinar) 75KT      May 6-10         Reliance/NA
India/HPCL      SELLS 180 (Vizag)   25KT      May 3-5          Gulf Petrochem/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      Apr 30-May 2     Vitol/-14
India/HPCL      BUYS 180 (Chennai)  30KT      Apr 22-30        Shell/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai)   30KT    Apr 24-26        Petronas/-14
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      APR 15-17        Mitsui/NA
India/HPCL      SELLS 380 (Vizag)   30KT      APR 12-14        Mercuria/NA
Qatar/Tasweeq   SELLS FO            80KT      APR 7-8          Shell/NA
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      May 5-7          cancelled
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      APR 11-13        PetroChina/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 35KT      APR 13-15        STO Maldives/-13
Viet/Petrolimex BUYS 380            5KT       Mar 28-Apr 5 del NA/+3 (FOB SG/M'sia)
                                    5KT       May 1-9 del      
                BUYS SPEC C(180cst) 30KT      Apr 1-4 del      NA/+2 (FOB SG/M'sia)
                     density 0.991  30KT      May 15-24 del    
                                    5KT       Mar 28-Apr 5 del 
                                    5KT       May 1-9 del
                BUYS SPEC A(180cst) 10KT      May 1-9 del      NA/+23 (FOB SG/M'sia)
                     density 0.97   
                BUYS SPEC K(180cst) 20KT      Mar 28-May 4 del NA/+30 (FOB SG/M'sia)
                     Density 0.97
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      APR 5-7          Cargill/-27/-29
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 380 (Yanbu)   80KT      Apr 2-4          Mitsui/NA
SKorea/WP       BUYS HSFO (Ptaek)   45KT      APR 16-20        Hyundai/+26 (CFR)
SKorea/EWP      BUYS HSFO (Ulsan)   50KT      APR 11-15        Hanwha/+6.66 (CFR)
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS HSFO           11x65KT   Mar-May          PetroChina, Bakri, Vitol/+25/29
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS LSFO           3x60kt    Mar-May          Vitol/+130-140
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      APR 24-26        Cancelled
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      APR 13-15        Glencore/+2    
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      APR 4-6          RIL/+12
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 35KT      APR 3-5          Socar/-12
India/HPCL      SELLS 180 (Vizag)   25-30KT   MAR 26-28        Mercuria/-20/-21
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      MAR 17-19        BP/-35/-32
Kuwait/KPC      SELLS 380           80KT      MAR 19-20        BP/+10
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  22-24KT   MAR 17-19        BP/-1
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 30-35KT   MAR 18-20        Vitol/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      MAR 13-15        cancelled
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      MAR 27-29        cancelled
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 30-35KT   MAR 5-7          Glencore/-11/-12
India/HPCL      SELLS 380 (Vizag)   25-30KT   Mar 1-5          Mercuria/-20/-21
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      MAR 15-17        Mitsui/+2.80/+3
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      MAR 12-14        cancelled
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      MAR 3-5          Reliance/+9/+10
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      FEB 16-18        PetroChina/-12
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      FEB 15-17        Petrosummit/-20/-25
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  25KT      FEB 15-17        BB Energy/-20
India/Essar     SELLS VGO (Vadinar) 70KT      FEB 10-14        Exxon/+13 to Dubai
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      FEB 4-6          Socar/-6/-7
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      FEB 23-25        PetroChina/+2/+2.5
India/HPCL      SELLS 380 (Vizag)   25-30KT   FEB 1-3          Gulf Petchem/NA
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      FEB 9-11         PetroChina/NA
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      FEB 2-4          Reliance/+10
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  25KT      JAN 31-FEB 2     BP/-19/-20
Saudi/SASREF       SELLS 650 (Yanbu)   80KT      JAN 27-29        Bakri/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      JAN 25-27        Haldia/NA
India/HPCL      SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  35KT      JAN 27-29        Gulf Petrochem/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Chennai) 35KT      JAN 15-17        BP/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      JAN 15-17        Vitol/unknown
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  25KT      JAN 8-10         Vitol/unknown
India/HPCL      SELLS 380 (Vizag)   25-30KT   JAN 18-20        withdrawn
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      JAN 20-22        Reliance/+7.80
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      JAN 25-27        Mercuria/-1
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 (NMang)   80KT      JAN 15-17        Trafigura/-1.50
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO (NMang)   40KT      JAN 12-14        Reliance/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      JAN 5-7          Petronas/unspecified
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS 380 (Jubail)  80KT      JAN 21           Mitsui/unknown
ASIA/MIDEAST FUEL OIL TENDER AWARDS/RESULTS (2013)
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS 650 (Yanbu)   80-90KT   DEC 27-29        Shell/unknown 
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO (Yanbu)   30KT      DEC 29-31        Shell/unknown
India/HPCL      SELLS 380 (Vizag)   25-30kt   DEC 29-31        Shell/-22/-20
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      DEC 23-25        PetroChina/-8.50
Indo/Pertamina  SELLS 180 (Cilacap) 30KT      DEC 7-8          Mitsui/unspecified
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO (Yanbu)   230-275KB DEC 18-20        Bakri/unknown
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS 650 (Yanbu)   80-90KT   DEC 14-18        Bakri/unknown
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Haldia)  15KT      DEC 12-14        P66/-19
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Kandla)  30KT      DEC 9-11         BP/-8/-6.5
India/Essar     SELLS VGO (Vadinar) 75KT      DEC 16-20        Chevron/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      DEC 2-4          Mitsui/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELLS 380           30KT      DEC 1-5          Shell/-19/22
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS FO            80KT      DEC 7-9          Mitsui/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 180(Chennai)  30KT      DEC 1-3          BP/-7.75
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 180           80KT      DEC 12-14        Shell/unspecified
India/Essar     SELLS VGO           65KT      DEC 4-8          Daewoo/unspecified
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 HSFO      80KT      DEC 25-27        Mitsui/+6.25
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 180           80KT      DEC 5-7          Shell/unspecified
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO           40KT      DEC 1-3          Vitol/Dub+8.35-8.40    
India/MRPL      SELLS 380           80KT      DEC 11-13        Mitsui/8.15
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO           40KT      NOV 30-DEC 2     Shell/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELLS FO            15KT      NOV 24-26        Vitol/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 180 (Mumbai)  30KT      NOV 21-23        BP/-7       
India/HPCL      SELLS VGO (Vizag)   25-30KT   NOV 17-20        cancelled    
India/IOC       SELLS 180(Kandla)   30KT      NOV 13-15        Vitol/-9.50/-9 
India/IOC       SELLS 380 (Haldia)  15KT      NOV 14-16        BP/-16
India/ESSAR     SELLS VGO           65KT      NOV 19-23        unknown
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS 650           90KT      NOV 7-9          Mitsui/unspecified
India/IOC       SELLS 380           15KT      NOV 2-4          Mitsui/-19             
India/MRPL      SELLS 380           80KT      NOV 24-26        Mitsui/+6/+7
Kuwait/KPC      SELLS 380           80KT      NOV 26-27        Vitol/unspecified
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO           30KT      NOV 16-18        Bakri/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELLS VGO           15KT      NOV 1-7          cancelled
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 380           80KT      Nov 3-5          Vitol/unspecified     
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO           40KT      NOV 1-3          Mitsui/Dubai crude+4
India/MRPL      SELLS 380 HSFO      80KT      NOV 14-16        Shell/SG380+1
Taiwan/CPC      BUYS LSFO           40KT      Nov 1-30         unknown
India/BPCL      SELLS 380           35Kt      OCT 31-Nov 2     P66/-15/FOB
India/BPCL      SELLS 380           24Kt      OCT 29-31        Vitol/-8.50/FOB
Bahrain/BAPCO   SELLS 380           60KT      Oct 28-30        Vitol/MOPAG 380 flat
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO           35KT      Oct 17-19        Shell/NA
India/Essar     SELLS VGO           65KT      OCT 27-29        Reliance/NA
India/IOC       SELLS 380           30-35KT   Oct 25-27        Mitsui/unspecified
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS 380           90KT      Oct 24-28        Glencore/unspecified
Saudi/SAMREF    SELLS LCO           35KT      Oct 17-19        Shell/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELLS 180           15KT      Oct 24-26        Petronas/unspecified
Bahrain/BAPCO   SELLS 380           80KT      Oct 18-21        Vitol/unspecified
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 380           75KT      Oct 12-14        BP/unspecified 
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 380           75KT      Oct 20-22        Chevron/unspecified             
Saudi/SASREF    SELLS 380           75KT      Oct 28-30        BP/unspecified       
India/MRPL      SELLS VGO           40KT      Oct 18-20        cancelled
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS HSFO 125CST    65KTx4    November         Bakri/Petrochina/AG+$25-26    
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS HSFO 125CST    65KTx4    December         Bakri/BB Energy/AG+$22.50-26
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS HSFO 125CST    65KTx2    Nov-Dec          Mercuria/AG+$23-25.50
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS LSFO           60KTx2    Oct 15-Nov 30    Vitol/AG+$99.50
Pakistan/PSO    BUYS LSFO           60KTx1    December         Vitol/AG+$102
IOC                  SELLS 380       35KT      Oct 15-17       Socar/NA
Yemen/Aden           BUYS: HSFO      75KTX5    Oct-Dec         IPG/NA
MRPL/New Mangalore   SELL:HSFO       80KT      Oct 24-26       Mitsui/SG 380-1.40
IOC                  SELLS 380       25-35KT   Oct 8-10(Chennai)Petco/IOC formula-13
BPCL/Kochi           SELLS 380       25KT-40KT Oct 13-15       Totsa/SG 380-14.15
S. Korea/EWP         BUYS HSFO       50KT      Oct 9-13        Mercuria/SG-7.98   
Taiwan/CPC           BUYS LSFO       40KT      Oct arr         Petrobras/NA
India/MRPL           SELLS 380       80KT      Oct 6-8         Mitsui/SG-4 
S. Korea/EWP         BUYS HSFO       50KT      Sept arr                cancelled
Pakistan/PSO         BUYS 180        60KTx3    Sept-Oct   Gunvor/Vitol/BB Energy AG180+$90-$105
S.Korea/WP         BUY 380         35KT      Sept 12-22 (Pyeongtaek)  NA 
India/HPCL           SELL 380        30-35KT   Aug 8-10, 24-26          SG 180-$30/NA           
  
India/IOC            SELL 380        30-35KT   Aug 28-30                Cargill/SG180-$15-17
India/IOC            SELL 380        15KT      Aug 14-16                     Glencore/NA
India/IOC            SELL 380        30KT      Aug 4-6 (Mumbai)            BB Energy/NA
India/IOC            SELL 180        30KT      July 31-Aug 2 (Kandla)        Gunvor/ SG180-$17  
 
India/IOC            SELL 180        15KT      July 29-31 (Haldia)           Vitol/SG180-$30
Thailand/Bangchak    SELL LSWR        30KT      August 14-16      Mitsui/NA
Pakistan (PSO)       SELL 180        65x10     July-September      MEast 180ct ($18-$20)
                                                                     Vitol (3x65KT); 
                                                                     Bakri, PetroChina (2x65KT),
     
                                                                     Swiss Spore, Socar(2x65KT)
                       LSFO          2x65KT  July                    MEast 180cst($90-$94)      
                  
                                                                     Gunvor (1x65kt)
                                                                     Trafigura (1x65kt)
India/MRPL           SELL 380        80KT    Aug 13-15               SG 380 (-$3/T)/NA
Sri Lanka/CEYPETCO   SELL 180        20KT    June 16-18              Bumi Siak/SG180+2.83/T
Thailand/IRPC        SELL LSWR       30KT    June 22-24              Vitol/NA
Taiwan/CPC           BUY  LSFO       40KT    July 1-31  Keelung/Kaohsiung SG180+50s level
                  
India/MRPL           SELL 380        80KT     July 22-24              Gunvor/SG380-$1.50
South Korea/KWP      BUYS 540        60KT     July 7-11/July 18-22 $640.20 (CFR)/SG 180+$14.60/T
Saudi/SAMREF         SELL 650        80KT     June 17-21 (Yanbu)  MEast Trader/SG 380+$18-$20/T 
            
Saudi/SAMREF         SELL LCO        40KT   June 11             BP/SG 380+$100
Jordan/JRPC          BUYS 380        3x70KT July-September (Aquaba) BB Energy/MED 180+$45-$50/T 
UAE/ADNOC            SELL 380        90KT   June  6-8               Vitol/SG 180+$50-$55/T 
India/IOC            SELL 380        15KT   June 28-30              IOC Formula-$35/T
InterOil         BUYS 180        40KT   Aug '13-July '14        Shell/SG 180+$70-$75/T
South Korea/S Oil    SELL LSFO       30KT   end June                Cosmo Oil/SG180+90/T        
  
South Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO        30KT   June 14-18  (Pyeongtaek)  NA
                     BUY: HSFO        30KT   June 26-30  (Pyeongtaek)  NA
India/IOC            SELL 380         35KT   June 18-20                Petco/IOC Formula-$10/T
Taiwan/Formosa       SELL: PFO        15KT   June 20-22                Gunvor/SG 180 +$30/T
INDIA/MRPL           SELL 380         80KT   July 5-7                  Gunvor/SG +$0.7/T
S.Korea/EWP          BUY  HSFO        50KT   June 21-25                Hyundai/SG -$2.34/T CFR
Indonesia/Petral     SELL 180 LSFO  3*200KB  June 2-3,8-9,17-18        Kuo,Vitol/SG 180 +$9-10/T
India/Essar          SELL LSFO        42KT   June 24-28                did not award
Bangchak Petroleum   SELL LSWR        30KT   June 15-17                Mitsui/SG 180+$65
India/MRPL           SELL 380         80KT   June 22-24 (NM)           Mitsui/SG 380+$0-$1/
India/MRPL           SELL 380         80KT   June 3-5  (NM)            Gunvor/SG 380+$1-$2/  
Sri Lanka/CEYPETCO   SELL 180         20KT   May 16-17 (Dolphin)        Bumi Siak/SG 180$+$3-$5 
  
Kuwait/KPC         SELL 380         80KT   May 12-13 (Shuaiba)       Total/AG+$18-$20T/    
India/IOC            SELL 180         24KT   May 17-19 (JNPT)          Unknown/IOC Formula-$5-$9
India/Reliance     SELL: CBFS       40KT   May 21-23 (Sikka)         Unknown/AG180+Flat/
Taiwan/Formosa       SELL: PFO        15KT   May 8-10  (Mailiao)       Unknown/180+$31/FOB      
S.Korea/EWP         BUY: HSFO         50KT   May  8-12 (Ulsan)          Samsung/$4.80/T CFR    
S.Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO         30KT   May  6-10 (Pyongtaek)      Samsung/$630/T CFR       
India/IOC            SELL:380         15KT   May 3-5    (Haldia)        Socar//Unknown 
India/IOC         SELL:380         35KT   May 7-9    (Chennai)      Vitol/IOC Formula -$5-$10 
India/IOC            SELL:180         25KT   Apr 22-24  (JNPT)          Unknown/180-$11/T    
India/IOC            SELL:180         30KT   Apr 30-May 2 (Kandla)      PetroChina/ 180-$10/T   
 
S.Korea/KDHC         BUY: LSFO/LSWR   31KT   May 1-14  (Gunsan)         Mitsui/+$94.90/T CFR
India/Essar          SELL: VGO        65KT   Apr 12-16 (Vadinar)        Total/unspecified      
India/IOC            SELL: 180        15KT   Apr 14-16 (Haldia)         cancelled
Thailand/Bangchak    SELL: LSWR       30KT   Mar 28-30 (Sriracha)       Shell/+$116/+$118/T FOB
Thailand/Bangchak    SELL: LSWR       30KT   Mar 21-23 (Sriracha)       Vitol/+$122/+$124/T FOB
India/IOC            SELL: 180        15KT   Apr 5-7   (Haldia)         BP/-$15/-$16/T FOB
India/IOC            SELL: 180        30KT   Apr 6-8   (Kandla)         Glencore/-$5/-$6/T FOB
                                      15KT   Apr 6-8   (JNPT Mumbai)
S.Korea/EWP          BUY: HSFO        50KT   Apr 5-9   (Ulsan)             Mercuria/-$0.50/T CFR
                                      50KT   Apr 16-20 (Ulsan)             Mercuria/-$0.50/T CFR
Sri Lanka/Ceypetco  SELL: HSFO        20KT   May 1-2  (Dolphin)            Bumi Siak/SG180+$3-$5
      
Pakistan/PSO        BUY:  HSFO        65KT x 8 April-July                  Unknown/AG+21/FOB
                    BUY:  LSFO        180KT    May-July                   Unknown/AG+113/ 
Vietnam/Petrolimex  BUY   180 Spec C  30KT    May 20-30                    BP/SG+2/
                          180 Spec C  15KT    Apr 22-27                    BP/SG+2
                          380          5KT    Apr 22-27                    BP/SG380+4
                          180 Spec A   10KT   Apr 22-27                    Vitol/SG180+$30      
   
                          180 Spec C   20KT   Jun 26-Jul 3                 Deferred
                          180 Spec A   10KT   Jun 10-20                    Deferred
                          180 Spec C    5KT   Jun 10-20                    Deferred
India/MRPL         SELL:  380          80KT   May 12-14                    Trafigura/SG 380+$1  
    
India/IOC          SELL:  380          30-35KT Apr 26-28                   Unknown/IOC - $8    
India/IOC          SELL:  380          15KT    Apr 25-27                   Glencore/IOC-$22    
Sri Lanka/Ceypetco   BUY: LSFO            35KT   Apr 25    (SPM Muthurajawela) (cancelled)
Taiwan/CPC         BUY: 380            80KT      May                        Asian/SG380 $7-$9   
South Korea/WP     BUY: HSFO           30KT      Apr 26-30  (Pyeongtaek)    Vitol/$650/T CFR
FUEL OIL TENDER AWARDS, SPOT SALES: 
SELL:
MIDDLE EAST
Saudi/SASREF        SELL: 180     80KT x5 May         Yanbu)                SITME/+$9-$11 FOB   
 
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 650      90KT   Mar 1-5     (Yanbu)               Bakri/unspecified
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Feb 14-15  (Shuaiba)        PetroChina/ME+$20/T FOB
Saudi/Exxon      SELL: 650      80KT   Feb 17-19   (Yanbu)               Bakri/unspecified
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      80KT   Dec 22-24  (Yanbu)          Kuo Oil/-$28/-$29/T FOB 
Qatar/Tasweeq    SELL: Decant oil 15KT Jan 23-24  (Mesaieed)             unspecified
                       SRFO      1KT
Qatar/Tasweeq    SELL: SRFO     30KT   Jan 26-27  (Mesaieed)             Shell/unspecified
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Dec 28-29  (Shuaiba)              Total/ME+$0/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      88KT   Dec 25-29  (Jubail)               unspecified
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A991 180 80KT   Dec 3-4    (Ras Tanura)           unspecified  
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A991 180 80KT   Dec 18-19  (Ras Tanura)           unspecified
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      80KT   Dec 8-10   (Yanbu)            Total/-$29/-$30/T FOB      
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      80KT   Dec 11-12  (Jubail)             Vitol/ME+$0/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      80KT   Dec 4-5    (Jubail)        PetroChina/ME+$0/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      41KT   Nov 27-29  (Jubail)             Shell/ME+$3/T FOB
Yemen/Yemen Oil  SELL: LSFO     50KT   Nov 24-26               Trafigura/+$68/+$70/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      80KT   Nov 26-29  (Yanbu)                 not awarded
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Nov 26-28  (Kuwait)                not awarded
Saudi/Exxon      SELL: 650      80KT   Nov 29-Dec 2 (Yanbu)    Bakri/-$27/-$29/T FOB
Saudi/Samref     SELL: 650      80KT   Nov 6-10   (Yanbu)           Shell/unspecified
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      80KT   Nov 13-15  (Yanbu)      Shell/-$25/-$26/T FOB
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 650      80KT   Oct 26-28  (Yanbu)      Bakri/-$28/-$30/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A991 180 105KT  Oct 7-9    (Ras Tanura)          unknown
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      90KT   Oct 7-9    (Yanbu)      Mercuria/-$29/-$30/T FOB
Saudi/Exxon      SELL: 650      80KT   Oct 6-10   (Yanbu)      Bakri/-$28/-$29/T FOB
Saudi/Exxon      SELL: 650      80KT   Oct 1-3    (Yanbu)      Bakri/-$28/-$29/T FOB
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Sept 4-5   (Kuwait)     Vitol/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: VGO      40KT   Sept 5-6   (Kuwait)     Vitol/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Sept 9-10  (Kuwait)     PetroChina/ME+$10/T
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   Sept 19-20 (Kuwait)     Bakri/unknown 
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650   80-85KT   Aug 30-31  (Yanbu)      Vitol/-$24/-$25/T FOB
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      80KT   Aug 24-26  (Yanbu)      Bakri/-$28/-$29/T FOB
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: VGO 225-250KB   Aug 24-26  (Yanbu)               unknown
Qatar/Tasweeq    SELL: DCO      20KT   Sept 28-29              Shell/unspecified 
                      SRFO       1KT   Sept 28-29      
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 650      80KT   Aug 11-13  (Yanbu)          Vitol/-$25/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 650      80KT   Aug 3-5    (Yanbu)        BP/-$20/-$23/T
Bahrain/BAPCO    SELL: 380      50KT   Aug 22-23  (Bahrain)             unknown
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 650      90KT   July 18-20 (Yanbu)       Bakri/-$20/-$21
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380     100KT   July 13-14 (Kuwait)        Vitol/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   July 21-22 (Kuwait)        Vitol/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   July 4-5   (Kuwait)           BP/unknown
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   July 7-9   (Yanbu)            BP/unknown
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   June 21-23 (Yanbu)     Bakri/-$24/-$25/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380 LR   50KT   June 11-13 (Jubail)        Shell/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: cracked fuel 80KT June 3-4 (Kuwait)  Repsol/ME+$9/+$10/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A991 180 90KT   June 20    (Ras Tanura)        cancelled
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   June 8-10  (Yanbu)        BP/-$26/-$27/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380 LR   50KT   May 15-17  (Jubail)        Shell/unknown
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      90KT   May 22-24  (Jubail)      Mideast/unknown
Saudi/Exxonmobil SELL: 700      80KT   May 25-27  (Yanbu)         Vitol/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   May 30-31  (Kuwait)        Totsa/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   May 16-17  (Kuwait)        Vitol/unknown    
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A990 SR  90KT   May 1-5    (Ras Tanura)    Shell/unknown
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 700      90KT   May 5-7    (Yanbu)   Cargill/-$27/-$28/T
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   May 12-14  (Yanbu)          Bakri/-$28/T
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   May 7-8                    Bakri/unknown
Saudi/Exxonmobil SELL: 700      90KT   April 28-30 (Yanbu)         Bakri/-$25/T
Saudi/Exxonmobil SELL: 700      90KT   April 14-16 (Yanbu)        Bakri/unknown
Saudi Aramco     SELL: MCB 243-270KB   April 23-25 (Yanbu)            cancelled 
                 SELL: LR       50KT   April 11-13 (Jubail)       Shell/unknown     
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: LGO  270-300KB  April 21-23 (Yanbu)              unknown 
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A990 180 100KT  April 1-2   (Ras Tanura)         unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: coker gasoil 20-22KT  April 1-2 (Kuwait)         unknown
                             20-22KT   April 20-21
                             20-22KT   May 7-8                        
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   April 1-2   (Yanbu)         Bakri/-$25/T
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   March 24-25 (Kuwait)       Bakri/unknown
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   March 12-13 (Kuwait)       Vitol/unknown    
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      30KT   March 28    (Jubail)       Shell/unknown
                   A990 180     30KT               (Ras Tanura) 
Bahrain/BAPCO    SELL: 380      50KT   March 13-16 (Bahrain) Gulf Petchem/ME380-$1/flat 
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: A990 180 27-30KT March 14-17 (Ras Tanura)      cancelled 
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 100, 0.93 dens 90KT early Mar (Ruwais)         cancelled
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380 (LR) 45-50KT March 15-16 (Jubail)      Shell/unknown     
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   March 16-18 (Yanbu)    Bakri/-$24/-$25/T   
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: 380      80KT   March 9-11  (Kuwait)    BP/ME+$12/+$13/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      90KT   March 15    (Jubail)        BP/-$6/-$7/T
Saudi/ExxonMobilSELL: 700       90KT   March 4-6   (Yanbu)    Bakri/-$15/-$16/T
Kuwait/KPC       SELL: Coker diesel 40KT Feb 4-5           unknown/ME180+$140/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 380      90KT   Feb 28-29   (Jubail)     Bakri/-$7/-$8/T
Saudi/Aramco     SELL: 700      90KT   Feb 16-18   (Yanbu)    Vitol/-$16/-$17/T 
Saudi/ExxonMobil SELL: 700      90KT   Feb 14-16   (Yanbu)       BP/-$17/-$18/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 380       90KT   Feb 15-17   (Jubail)     Bakri/-$6/-$7/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 700       90KT   Feb 6-12    (Yanbu)       BP/-$13/-$14/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: A991 (180)90KT   Jan 23-26 (Ras Tanura) Totsa/+$16/+$17/T
Saudi/ExxonMobilSELL: 700       90KT   Jan 31-Feb 2 (Yanbu)   Bakri/-$15/-$16/T     
Saudi/ExxonMobilSELL: 700       90KT   Jan 17-19   (Yanbu)       BP/-$19/-$20/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 700       90KT   Jan 23-25   (Yanbu)       BP/-$19/-$20/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 700       90KT   Jan 10-11   (Yanbu)    Bakri/-$19/-$20/T
Saudi/Exxon     SELL: 700       90KT   Jan 4-6     (Yanbu)  unknown/-$15/-$16/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 180       80KT   Jan 13-15   (Jubail)     Shell/+$7/+$8/T
                      180       80KT   Jan 19-21   (Jubail)     Shell/+$7/+$8/T
                      LCO      270KB   Jan 21-23 (Yanbu) ExxonMobil/+$130/$140/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 380       80KT   Dec 24-26   (Jubail)             unknown
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 180 (A961)90KT   Dec 24-26 (Ras Tanura) Bakri/+$15/+$16/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 700       90KT   Dec 16-18   (Yanbu)        Vitol/unknown
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 380       80KT   Dec 10-12   (Rabigh)       Shell/unknown
Kuwait/KPC      SELL: 380       80KT   Dec 2-3     (Kuwait)       Shell/unknown
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: LR     47-50KT   Dec 27-29   (Jubail)             unknown   
Saudi/Exxon     SELL: 700       90KT   Dec 22-24   (Yanbu)    Vitol/-$20/-$21/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 180 (A961)80KT   Dec 5-7     (Ras Tanura)   Bakri/unknown       
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 700       90KT   Dec 1-3     (Yanbu)       BP/-$19/-$20/T
Kuwait/KPC      SELL: 380       80KT   Dec 16-17   (Kuwait)      Vitol/ME+$15/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 180 (A961)90KT   Nov 27-29 (Ras Tanura) Petrobras/+$20/+$21/T    
Saudi/Exxon     SELL: 700    80-90KT   Dec 6-8     (Yanbu)    Bakri/-$15/-$16/T
Saudi/Aramco    SELL: 180       80KT   Dec 3-5     (Jubail)      BP/+$20/+$25/T
                                80KT   Dec 8-10    (Jubail)      BP/+$20/+$25/T
                                80KT   Dec 18-20   (Jubail)      BP/+$20/+$25/T
    
INDIA
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   May 12-14 (New Mangalore)         Trafigura/+$1
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Apr 20-22 (New Mangalore)              unspecified
India/Essar     SELL: VGO     60-65KT/mth   Mar-Sept   (Vadinar)          Reliance/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Apr 1-3   (Chennai)                BP/-$7/-$9/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Apr 1-3   (Vizag)           Petronas/-$8/-$10/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Mar 24-26  (Haldia)          Gunvor/-$20/-$25/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Apr 18-20  (New Mangalore)      Vitol/+$2/+$3/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Apr 10-12 (New Mangalore)                 cancelled
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        25KT   Mar 17-19  (Mumbai)                Socar/-$13/T FOB
                                 30KT   Mar 17-19  (Kochi)
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Apr 3-5     (New Mangalore) Mitsui/-$0.20/-$0/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180     40-45KT   Mar 20-22   (Kandla/Mumbai)  Gunvor/-$12/-$15/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Mar 10-11   (Haldia)          Vitol/-$22/-$24/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        65KT   Mar 17-21   (Vadinar)   Phillips 66/Dubai+$16/B FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180     40-45KT   Mar 4-6     (Kandla/Mumbai)       Vitol/unspecified
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Mar 12-14   (Chennai)  STO Maldives/-$11/-$12/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        45KT   Feb 10-14   (Vadinar)   Phillips 66/Dubai+$12/B FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Mar 18-20   (New Mangalore)  PetroDiamond/-$3/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Mar 28-30   (New Mangalore)    Reliance/unspecified
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Feb 22-26   (Mumbai)               Vitol/-$22/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180     40-45KT   Feb 20-22   (Kandla/Mumbai)        Shell/-$19/T FOB
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        20KT   Feb 15-18   (Kochi)                Vitol/-$20/T FOB
                      180        20KT                                      Vitol/-$20/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Feb 17-19   (Chennai)   unspecified/-$13/-$15/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Feb 12-14   (Haldia)                      cancelled
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Feb 7-9     (Vizag)           Socar/-$21/-$23/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Feb 6-8      (Chennai)   Petrosummit/-$12/-$15T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: 180        45KT   Feb 1-5    (Vadinar)              Vitol/unspecified
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Feb 26-28  (New Mangalore)       Vitol-$4/-$6/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Mar 9-11    (New Mangalore)               cancelled
India/IOC       SELL: 180     40-45KT   Jan 30-Feb 1 (Kandla&Mumbai)  Socar/-$25/-$27/T FOB     
                               
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Feb 12-14  (New Mangalore)        Vitol/unspecified
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        20KT   Jan 15-18  (Kochi)               BP/-$23/-$25/T FOB
                                 20KT   Jan 23-26  (Kochi)         
India/HPCL      SELL: VGO     25-30KT   Jan 20-25  (Vizag)                        cancelled     
    
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Jan 23-25  (Chennai)         PetroSummit/-$16/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Feb 6-8    (New Mangalore)      Vitol/-$4/-$6/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Feb 3-5    (New Mangalore)                cancelled
India/IOC       SELL: 180        30KT   Jan 20-22  (Kandla)                       cancelled
                              13-15KT   Jan 20-22  (Mumbai)
                              40-45KT   Jan 20-22  (Kandla&Mumbai)       
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Jan 22-23  (New Mangalore)     Vitol/Dubai+$1/B FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Jan 11-13  (Chennai)         Gunvor/-$16/-$17/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        65KT   Jan 3-7    (Vadinar)           Reliance/unspecified
India/IOC       SELL: 180        30KT   Jan 3-5    (Kandla)                Vitol/-$24/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Jan 8-10   (Haldia)               Gunvor/-$36/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Jan 1-3    (Chennai)                  BP/-$16/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380     25-30KT   Jan 3-5    (Vizag)           Itochu/-$21/-$22/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Dec 17-19  (Haldia)          Gunvor/-$36/-$37/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Jan 13-15  (New Mangalore)    Vitol/-$10/-$11/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 180        30KT   Dec 8-10   (Mumbai)                       cancelled
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Dec 20-22  (Chennai)    PetroSummit/-$19/-$20/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Dec 24-26  (New Mangalore)              not awarded
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Dec 20-22  (New Mangalore)    Cargill/-$8/-$9/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        65KT   Dec 11-15  (Vadinar)       Total/Dubai+$2/+$3/B FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Dec 10-12  (Haldia)              BP/-$35/-$36/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Dec 10-12  (Chennai)             BP/-$15/-$16/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Dec 6-8    (New Mangalore)   Mercuria/-$5/-$6/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Nov 26-28  (Haldia)               Gunvor/-$36/T FOB
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        25KT   Nov 20-25  (Mumbai)           Socar/-$34/-$36/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Nov 22-24  (Chennai)          Vitol/-$12/-$13/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Nov 15-17  (Vizag)                 Vitol/-$17/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Nov 13-15  (Chennai)          Vitol/-$18/-$19/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        60KT   Nov 12-16  (Vadinar)              BP/Dubai+$6/B FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Nov 22-24  (New Mangalore)     Mitsui/-$3/-$4/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Nov 25-27  (New Mangalore) Mitsui/Dubai+$1.50/B FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Nov 12-14  (Haldia)          Gunvor/-$26/-$27/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        30KT   Nov 15-17  (Kandla)       BB Energy/-$23/-$25/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380     35-40KT   Nov 4-12   (Mumbai)        Marubeni/-$19/-$20/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Nov 2-4    (Chennai)                   BP/-$6/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Oct 28-30  (Haldia)          Gunvor/-$26/-$27/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        30KT   Oct 28-30  (Kandla)       BB Energy/-$17/-$18/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Nov 9-11   (New Mangalore)     Gunvor/-$3/-$4/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Oct 16-20  (Vizag)         Marubeni/-$23/-$25/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Nov 3-5    (New Mangalore)     Vitol/Dubai+$6/T FOB
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Oct 23-27  (Kochi)         Marubeni/-$17/-$18/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Oct 23-25  (Chennai)              BP/-$5/-$10/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380     35-40KT   Oct 12-14  (Mumbai)          PetroChina/unspecified
India/Essar     SELL: 380        45KT   Oct 18-22  (Vadinar)           Socar/ME+$4/$5/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Oct 28-30  (New Mangalore)      Shell/-$3/-$4/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        25KT   Oct 14-16  (Kandla)               Vitol/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Oct 8-14   (Vizag)       Gulf Petroleum/unspecified 
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Oct 20-22  (Haldia)                   BP/-$18/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        60KT   Oct 12-16  (Vadinar)  Chevron/Dubai+$9/+$10/Bbl FOB
India/BPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Oct 10-14  (Kochi)         Glencore/-$17/-$19/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Oct 10-12  (Haldia)               Vitol/unspecified
India/IOC       SELL: 380     30-35KT   Oct 6-8    (Chennai)         Unipec/-$10/-$15/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Sept 22-24 (Vizag)              Glencore/-$11/T FOB 
India/HPCL      SELL: 380     35-40KT   Sept 22-24 (Mumbai)            ENOC/-$25/-$28/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Sept 21-13 (Chennai)       Petrosummit/-$5.00/T FOB
India/IOC       SELL: 180        15KT   Sept 25-27 (Haldia)                        unknown
India/HPCL      SELL: 380        30KT   Aug 27-29  (Vizag)              Marubeni/-$10/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Oct 12-14  (New Mangalore)      Mitsui/-$4.50/T FOB
India/Reliance  SELL: CBFS       80KT   Sept 22-24 (Sikka)     PetroChina/ME-$11/-$13/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: 380        45KT   Sept 18-26 (Vadinar)   PetroChina/ME+$10/+$11/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: 380        45KT   Sept 11-13 (Vadinar)            Socar/-$6/-$7/T FOB
India/HPCL      SELL: 380     35-40KT   Aug 28-Sept 3 (Mumbai)          Marubeni/-$10/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Sept 21-23 (New Mangalore)       Marubeni/-$3/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: 380        45KT   Sept 7-11  (Vadinar)          Shell/ME-$5/-$6/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: 380        80KT   Sept 3-5   (New Mangalore)     Gunvor/-$5/-$6/T FOB
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO        40KT   Oct 1-3    (New Mangalore) Vitol/Dubai+$6/+$7/T FOB
India/Essar     SELL: 380        45KT   Aug 30-Sept 3 (Vadinar)        Glencore/unspecified
India/IOC       SELL: 380        35KT   Aug 24-26  (Chennai)        Petrosummit/unspecified
India/Essar     SELL: VGO        65KT   Aug 24-28  (Vadinar)              Vitol/unspecified
India/HPCL      SELL: 380       40KT   Aug 11-16  (Mumbai)             Socar/-$24/T
India/BPCL      SELL: 380       30KT   Aug 17-21  (Kochi)         Socar/-$14/-$15/T
                                30KT   Aug 27-31  (Kochi)
India/BPCL      SELL: 380       30KT   Sept 15-19 (Kochi)            Matrix/unknown
India/Reliance  SELL: CBFS      40KT   Aug 22     (Jamnagar)      Vitol/ME-$4/-$7/T
India/HPCL      SELL: 380       40KT   July 28-29 (Mumbai)                BP/-$24/T
India/BPCL      SELL: 380       30KT   July 20-24 (Kochi)      Marubeni/-$14/-$15/T
                                30KT   Aug 2-6    (Kochi) 
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   Aug 12-14  (Mangalore)           BP/-$2.50/T           
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   July 26-28 (Haldia)             Vitol/-$22/T
India/Essar     SELL: LSFO      45KT   Jul 29-Aug 2 (Vadinar)             cancelled
India/Reliance  SELL: CBFS      65KT   July 15-17 (Sikka)    PetroChina/ME-$5/-$7/T
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   July 18-22 (Vadinar)           Vitol/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   July 16-18 (Haldia)             BP/-$14/$-16
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   July 25-30 (Vadinar)                 unknown
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   June 21-25 (Vadinar)                 unknown
India/Essar     SELL: LSFO      45KT   July 11-15 (Vadinar)   Trafigura/+$70/+$80/T
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   July 15-17 (New Mangalore)   Mitsui/+$0.25/T
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   July 2-4   (Vadinar)         Chevron/unknown
India/Reliance  SELL: CBFS      40KT   June 27-29 (Jamnagar)          Bakri/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   July 3-5   (Chennai)            ENOC/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   June 15-17 (Chennai)                 unknown
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   June 24-26 (New Mangalore) Marubeni/-$1/-$2/T
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   June 9-11  (Vadinar)           Vitol/unknown
India/HPCL      SELL: 380    25-30KT   June 12-14 (Vizag)                 cancelled
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   June 5-7   (Haldia)       Gunvor/-$18/-$19/T
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   June 9-11  (New Mangalore) Mitsui/-$1/flat/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   June 1-3   (Chennai)            ENOC/unknown
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO       40KT   June 1-3   (New Mangalore)  Reliance/unknown  
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       65KT   May 22-26  (Vadinar)          Unipec/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   May 21-23  (Chennai)          Unipec/unknown
India/HPCL      SELL: HSFO   25-30KT   May 8-12   (Vizag)          ENOC/-$10/-$11/T
India/Essar     SELL: VGO       60KT   May 10-15  (Vadinar)        Reliance/unknown
India/HPCL      SELL: HSFO      30KT   May 10-12  (Vizag)                 cancelled 
India/Essar     SELL: 380       45KT   May 4-6    (Vadinar)  Vitol/+$5/+$7/T (MOPAG)
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   May 2-4    (Haldia)                BP/-$21/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   April 23-28 (Vadinar) Bakri/+$3/+$5/T (MOPAG)
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   April 29-May 1 (Chennai)      Mitsui/unknown
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO       40KT   May 19-21  (New Mangalore)  Reliance/unknown
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   May 7-9    (New Mangalore)       BP/+$2.50/T 
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   April 6-8  (Vadinar)          Cargill/-$16/T 
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   April 10-12 (Haldia) ConocoPhillips/-$19/-$20/T
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO       40KT   May 5-7 (New Mangalore)  Mitsui/+11/+$12/bbl 
India/MRPL      SELL: VGO       40KT   Apri1 23-25 (New Mangalore)   BP/+$8/+$9/bbl
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   April 12-14 (Chennai) Petrosummit/-$9/-$10/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   April 3-5  (Vadinar)      PetroChina/unknown
India/IOC       SELL: 380       30KT   April 2-4  (Chennai)          Mitsui/unknown
India/BPCL      SELL: 380       30KT   March 27-29 (Mumbai)               cancelled           
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   March 27-29 (Vadinar)       ENOC/-$15/-$16/T             
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   March 25-27 (Haldia)      Gunvor/-$20/-$21/T
India/Reliance  SELL: Cbfs      25KT   March 28-29 (Jamnagar)     Shell/ME380-$20/T
                                20KT   March 28-29 (Jamnagar)
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   March 21-25 (Vadinar)   Gulf Petchem/unknown
India/Reliance  SELL: Cbfs      40KT   March 23-25 (Jamnagar) Trafigura/ME380-$20/T
                                70KT   March 14-15 (Jamnagar)
India/Reliance  SELL: Cbfs      25KT   March 6-7  (Jamnagar)      Bakri/ME380-$20/T
                                45KT   March 6-7  (Jamnagar)       
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   Mar 9-11   (Haldia)       Gunvor/-$14/-$15/T
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   Apr 3-5    (Mangalore)    Astra/parity/+$1/T
India/Essar     SELL:380     60-80KT   March 15-19 (Vadinar)         BP/ME+$5/+$6/T
India/HPCL      SELL: 380       35KT   March 11-13 (Vizag)         ENOC/-$10/-$11/T
India/Essar     SELL:380     60-80KT   March 9-13 (Vadinar)       Unipec/-$1/parity
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   March 14-16 (Mangalore)         BP/+$6/+$7/T 
India/Essar     SELL: 380       60KT   March 2-6  (Vadinar)       Unipec/-$1/parity
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   Feb 25-27  (Chennai)        Mitsui/-$2/-$3/T            
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   Feb 18-20  (Haldia) ConocoPhillips/-$6/-$7/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       80KT   Feb 23-27  (Vadinar)          Socar/$0/+$1/T      
India/HPCL      SELL: 380       35KT   Feb 1-3    (Vizag)           BP/-$9.5/-$10/T
                                35KT   Feb 20-22  (Vizag) 
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   Feb 20-22  (Mangalore)    Gunvor/+$10/+$11/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       80KT   Feb 1-5    (Vadinar)   Mercuria/+$1/+$1.50/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   Jan 29-31  (Chennai)    Mitsui/-$0.5/+$0.5/T
India/IOC       SELL: 180       15KT   Jan 19-21  (Haldia)      Gunvor/-$1/-$1.50/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   Jan 16-18  (Chennai)       Mitsui/flat/-$1/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       80KT   Jan 24-28 (Vadinar) PetroChina/ME+$13/+$14/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380       80KT   Jan 14-18 (Vadinar) Gulf Petrochem/ME+$12/+$14/T
India/HPCL      SELL: 380       35KT   Jan 1-3    (Vizag)               Kuo/unknown
India/BPCL      SELL: 380       35KT   Jan 11-14  (Kochi)             Chemoil/-$5/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380    60/80KT   Jan 7-11   (Vadinar)           PTT/-$4/-$5/T
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   Jan 24-26  (Mangalore)        Astra/+$4.50/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   Jan 4-6    (Chennai)       Mitsui/flat/-$1/T
India/HPCL      SELL: 380    25-30KT   Dec 15-18  (Vizag)            BP/-$10/-$11/T
India/MRPL      SELL: 380       80KT   Jan 6-8 (New Mangalore)Petrosummit/+$4/+$4.5/T
India/Essar     SELL: 380    60/80KT   Jan 1-5    (Vadinar)                 unknown
India/Essar     SELL: 380    60/80KT   Dec 15-19  (Vadinar)       Shell/+$10/+$11/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380       25KT   Dec 18-20  (Chennai)            BP/-$7/-$8/T          
India/Essar     SELL: 380    60/80KT   Dec 9-13   (Vadinar)     Vitol/ME+$14/+$15/T
India/IOC       SELL: 380    30-35KT   Dec 6-8    (Chennai)        Mitsui/-$1/-$2/T 
India/Essar     SELL: 380    60/80KT   Dec-Feb    (Vadinar)    Matrix/ME+$12/+$14/T          
India/MRPL      SELL: 380      80KT    Dec 11-13  (Mangalore)       Vitol/+$4/+$5/T      
OTHERS
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    35KT   Mar 20-22  (Mailiao)                    unspecified
                       PFO      7KT
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     15KT   Mar 3-5     (Mailiao)             Gunvor/+$45/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    34KT   Feb 26-28   (Mailiao)            BP/-$40/-$45/T FOB
                       PFO     13KT                                    BP/+$65/+$70/T FOB
Thailand/Bangchak SELL: LSWR       30KT   Feb 26-28   (Sriracha)unspecified/+$120/+$125/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    34KT   Jan 31-Feb 2  (Mailiao)      Gunvor/-$50/-$55/T FOB
                 SELL: PFO     13KT   Jan 31-Feb 2  (Mailiao)      Gunvor/+$50/+$60/T FOB     
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    35KT   Jan 11-13  (Mailiao)              Gunvor/-$55/T FOB
                       PFO     12KT                                     Gunvor/+$55/T FOB
Thailand/Bangchak SELL: LSWR   30KT   Jan 13-15  (SriRacha)              Shell/+$95/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    33KT   Dec 21-23  (Mailiao)     Simosa Oil/-$50/-$55/T FOB
                       PFO     10KT                                      /+$50/+$55/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    40KT   Nov 21-23  (Mailiao)        Kuo Oil/-$55/-$60/T FOB
                       PFO     10KT                                      /+$50/+$55/T FOB
Taiwan/CPC       SELL: LSFO    35KT   2H Nov                    Trafigura/+$80/+$90/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    35KT   Nov 9-11   (Mailiao)            Vitol/+$3/+$6/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     13KT   Oct 23-25  (Mailiao)         Gunvor/+$75/+$85/T FOB
                       HSFO    40KT                                      /-$50/-$55/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    40KT   Oct 12-14  (Mailiao)           Vitol/+$5/+$10/T FOB
Taiwan/CPC       SELL: LSFO    35KT   October    (Kaohsiung)     Mercuria/+$85/+$90/T FOB       
                               35KT                             Trafigura/+$85/+$90/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     10KT   Sept 28-30 (Mailiao)          Total/+$60/+$65/T FOB
                       HSFO    35KT                                      /-$53/-$55/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     10KT   Sept 4-6   (Mailiao)         Gunvor/+$75/+$80/T FOB
                       HSFO    35KT                                           /-$50/T FOB
Taiwan/CPC       SELL: LSFO    38KT   Sept       (Kaohsiung)     Mercuria/+$83/+$85/T FOB
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     12KT   Aug 8-10   (Mailiao)     Petrosummit/+$50/+$55/T
Taiwan/CPC       SELL: LSFO    38KT   Aug 1-31   (Kaohsiung)   Trafigura/unknown
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    35KT   Aug 5-7    (Mailiao) PetroSummit/-$40/-$45/T
Thailand/Bangchak SELL: LSWR   30KT   July 20-22 (Sriracha)           cancelled
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     15KT   June 25-27 (Mailiao)              unknown
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: HSFO    40KT   July 9-11  (Mailiao)  PetroChina/-$45/-$50/T
Taiwan/Formosa   SELL: PFO     15KT    May 14-16 (Mailiao)    Vitol/+$90-$100/T 
Thailand/Bangchak SELL: LSWR   15KT    May 20-22 (Sriracha)      Mitsui/+$120/T  
Thailand/Bangchak SELL: LSWR   30KT    May 7-9 (Sriracha)        Itochu/+$130/T
Russia/Rosneft  SELL: M100 SR 2 mln tonnes May-Oct (Nakhodka)Toyota/+$60/+$62/T 
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    April 27-29 (Mailiao)  Vitol/-$60/-$65/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: PFO      15KT    April 5-7 (Mailiao)   Gunvor/+$80/+$85/T  
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    March 1-3 (Mailiao) Mercuria/-$20/-$25/T
                      PFO      15KT                        Mercuria/+$60/+$70/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Feb 12-14 (Mailiao)       BP/-$25/-$26/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Feb 2-4 (Mailiao)         BP/-$24/-$25/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Jan 20-22 (Mailiao)   Gunvor/-$25/-$30/T
                      PFO      15KT    Jan 20-22 (Mailiao)  Gunvor/+$100/$110/T   
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Jan 11-13 (Mailiao)         Totsa/-$35/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Jan 1-3 (Mailiao)      Totsa/-$30/-$35/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Dec 23-25 (Mailiao)    Vitol/-$35/-$45/T 
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Dec 13-15              Shell/-$30/-$40/T
                      PFO      15KT    Dec 13-15              Shell/+$40/+$45/T
Singapore/Exxon SELL: 500      40KT    Dec 21-23 (Singapore)            unknown
Thailand/Thai Oil SELL: 380  4x30KT    2012 (Sri Racha)                 unknown
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO (380-cst)40KT Nov 20-22               Mitsui/unknown      
                SELL: PFO      15KT    Nov 20-22                 Mitsui/unknown          
Taiwan/CPC      SELL: 380      80KT    Nov 15-30 (Singapore)      Shell/unknown
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Oct 9-11 (Mailiao)       Mercuria/-$19/T 
Malaysia/Petronas SELL: 180-cst 240KB  Oct 3-5 (Sungai Udang) Mercuria/+$25/+$30/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Sept 20-22 (Mailiao) Brightoil/-$25/-$30/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Sept 2-4 (Mailiao)           Kuo/unknown
                      PFO      15KT    Sept 2-4 (Mailiao)           Kuo/unknown
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: PFO      10KT    Aug 1-3 (Mailiao)              cancelled
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    July 27-29 (Mailiao)       Mitsui/-$25/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    July 20-22 (Mailiao) Mercuria/-$24/-$25/T  
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    July 5-7 (Mailiao)          Totsa/-$25/T
                SELL: PFO      10KT    July 5-7 (Mailiao)         Totsa/+$110/T    
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    June 20-22 (Mailiao)  Mitsui/-$20/-$24/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    June 3-5 (Mailiao)    Simosa/-$22/-$26/T       
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    May 15-17 (Mailiao)         Kuo/SG-$27/T   
                      PFO      15KT    May 15-17 (Mailiao)  Kuo/SG+$100/+$101/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Apr 28-30 (Mailiao)      Kuo/-$31/-$32/T       
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Apr 20-22 (Mailiao)  unknown/$-25/-$30/T
                      PFO      15KT    Apr 20-22 (Mailiao)      unknown/+$120/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    March 26-28 (Mailiao)  Vitol/SG180-$30/T
                SELL: PFO      10KT    March 26-28 (Mailiao)    Vitol/SG+$130/T 
Philippines/Petron SELL: 380   200MB   March 17-21 (Bataan)       Shell/$0/$1/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO      40KT   Mar 3-5 (Mailiao)      Shell/-$15/-$20/T
                      PFO       10KT   Mar 3-5 (Mailiao)    Shell/+$100/+$110/T    
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT   Feb 12-14 (Mailiao)    Itochu/-$15/-$16/T
                      PFO      20KT                          Itochu/+$75/+$80/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT   Jan 25-27 (Mailiao)     Chevron/-$15.00/T      
                       PFO     15KT                         Chevron/+$80/+$85/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT   Jan 1-3 (Mailiao)            Totsa/-$25/T      
                      PFO      15KT   Jan 1-3 (Mailiao)                  +$80/T 
Thailand/Thai Oil SELL: 380  6x30KT    2011                       Shell/+$1.00/T
Taiwan/Formosa  SELL: HSFO     40KT    Nov 17-19 (Mailiao)     Vitol/-$15/-$20/T 
                      PFO      10KT    Nov 17-19 (Mailiao)          Vitol/+$70/T 
BUY:
East Asia 
S.Korea/EWP      BUY: HSFO        50KT   Mar 23-27  (Ulsan)              Mitsui/+$2.67/T CFR
Taiwan/CPC       BUY: 380         80KT   April (Kaohsiung/Shalung)     PetroChina/+$10/T CFR
Vietnam/PV Oil   BUY: 180          5.5-7KT   Mar 1-5     (Nha Be)             unspecified
Vietnam/PV Oil   BUY: 180        11,400cbm   Mar 1-5     (Vung Tau)           unspecified
Vietnam/PV Oil   BUY: 380            3.3KT   Mar 1-10    (FSO Kamari)         unspecified
S.Korea/EWP      BUY: HSFO            50KT   Feb 24-28   (Ulsan)             Mitsui/+$5.35/T CFR
  
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Feb 15-19    (Pyeongtaek)       Vitol/$664.20/T CFR
                                      30KT   Feb 26-Mar 2 (Pyeongtaek)       Vitol/$665.20/T CFR
S.Korea/KDHC     BUY: LSFO/LSWR       31KT   Jan 30-Feb 6 (Gunsan)                     cancelled
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Jan 17-21  (Pyeongtaek)       Samsung/$670.80/T CFR
                                      30KT   Jan 27-31  (Pyeongtaek)         Vitol/+$27.88/T CFR
Korea/EWP        BUY: HSFO            50KT   Jan 16-20  (Ulsan)            Mercuria/+$1.88/T CFR
                                      50KT   Jan 27-31  (Ulsan)            Mercuria/+$1.88/T CFR
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Dec 15-19  (Pyeongtaek)       Samsung/$660.80/T CFR
                                      30KT   Dec 22-26  (Pyeongtaek)         Vitol/+$25.80/T CFR
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Dec 1-5    (Pyeongtaek)        Mitsui/+$26.80/T CFR
                                      30KT   Dec 8-12   (Pyeongtaek)       Hyundai/+$26.26/T CFR
Malaysia/Tenaga  BUY: 180           2x30KT   November                    Kuo Oil/+$21/+$22/T CFR
                                    2x30KT   December                      Shell/+$11/+$12/T CFR
       
S.Korea/EWP      BUY: HSFO            50KT   Dec 1-5    (Ulsan)               Mitsui/unspecified
                                      50KT   Dec 13-17  (Ulsan)
                                      50KT   Dec 26-30  (Ulsan)
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Nov 18-22  (Pyongtaek)             Vitol/+$25/T CFR
                                      30KT   Nov 26-30  (Pyongtaek)        
S.Korea/EWP      BUY: HSFO            50KT   Nov 16-20  (Ulsan)            Mercuria/+$1.02/T CFR
S.Korea/WP       BUY: HSFO            30KT   Nov 3-7    (Pyongtaek)            Mitsui/+$31/T CFR
S.Korea/EWP      BUY: HSFO            50KT   Nov 1-5    (Ulsan)             Mercuria/+0.68/T CFR
S.Korea/KDHC     BUY: LSFO            31KT   Dec 30                            Itochu/+$82/T CFR
Korea/EWP        BUY: HSFO            50KT   Sept 16-20                     Hyundai/+$4.93/T CFR
Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO            30KT   Aug 27-31  (Pyong Taek)           Mitsui/+$33/T CFR
                                      30KT   Sept 6-10                         Mitsui/+$32/T CFR
Vietnam/PV Oil   BUY: 180cst   16,500 cu m   Sept 15-20 (Vung Tau)         unknown
Vietnam/PV Oil   BUY: 380              2KT   Oct 1-10   (FSO Kamari)       unknown 
Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO             30KT   Aug 21-25  (Pyong Taek)      Samsung/+$28.94/T CFR
Korea/EWP        BUY: HSFO             50KT   Aug 11-15  (Ulsan)               Mitsui/+$10.45/T
                                       50KT   Aug 27-31  (Ulsan)                Daewoo/+$6.02/T
Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO             30KT   Aug 3-7    (Pyongtaek)      SK Energy/+$30/+$35/T
Korea/EWP        BUY: HSFO             50KT   July 8-12  (Ulsan)              Mercuria/+$5.80/T
                                       50KT   June 21-25 (Ulsan)                Mitsui/+$7.40/T
Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO             30KT   July 13-17 (Pyong Taek)            Samsung/$640/T
Korea/EWP        BUY: HSFO             50KT   June 13-17 (Ulsan)                Hanwha/+$6.50/T
                                       50KT   June 26-30 (Ulsan)                Hanwha/+$4.50/T
Malaysia/Tenaga  BUY: 180              30KT   June 5-7                       Vitol/Shell/+$15/T
                                       30KT   June 8-10
Korea/WP         BUY: HSFO             30KT   June 21-25 (Pyong Taek)            Samsung/$700/T
                                       30KT   July 5-9   (Pyong Taek)
**  tender issuance; * tender award, *** further updates 
 (Reporting by Asia Energy Desk)
Released: 2014-10-28T09:42:28.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas007yl
Samsung heir apparent moves to tighten grip on group firms
By Se Young Lee   
575 words
28 October 2014
03:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Group heir apparent Jay Y. Lee is moving to acquire small stakes in two of the group's financial firms, which analysts say will help the scion solidify control of South Korea's largest conglomerate as a succession looms.
Lee is seeking regulatory approval to purchase 0.1 percent each of Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd <032830.KS> and Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co Ltd <000810.KS>, Samsung Group said in a statement. He is reinvesting after-tax proceeds of 25.2 billion won ($23.97 million) from selling Samsung Asset Management Co Ltd shares to Samsung Life earlier this year.
Although the companies are already firmly in Samsung Group's grasp, analysts said direct ownership would allow Lee to formally influence how they are managed. Samsung Life is also at the heart of Samsung's complicated shareholding structure and will play an important role in any succession planning.
Samsung declined to comment on why Jay Y. Lee was buying the shares.
Samsung patriarch Lee Kun-hee has been hospitalized since May following a heart attack, putting impetus on his children to ensure a stable transfer of control. Jay Y. Lee, who is the only son, is widely expected to take over crown jewel Samsung Electronics Co Ltd <005930.KS>, as well as the financial firms.
"I think we're now seeing efforts to establish a Jay Y. Lee regime in earnest," said Chung Sun-sup, CEO of research firm Chaebul.com.
MORE MOVES POSSIBLE
Korea Investment Trust Management fund manager Baik Jae-yer said going through the regulatory approval process for Samsung Life now could also serve as a test run ahead of an eventual inheritance of his father's shares in the insurer. The elder Lee is Samsung Life's biggest single stakeholder at 20.8 percent.
"I think this process helps him identify any potential legal hurdles when he looks to inherit those shares," Baik said. The Financial Services Commision will likely decide whether to approve the purchases on Wednesday, said an official at the financial regulator who declined to be named.
Samsung Group said the younger Lee had no plans to buy more shares in Samsung Life or Samsung Fire & Marine at present. Analysts saw no need for additional purchases to bolster his influence and believed he was more likely to prepare for the inheritance of his father's Samsung Life stake.
The conglomerate has pushed through major initiatives to streamline its structure, including a merger of Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd <010140.KS> and Samsung Engineering Co Ltd <028050.KS> approved by shareholders on Monday.
Chaebul.com's Chung said Jay Y. Lee could buy shares in other key group companies such as Samsung C&T Corp <000830.KS> and Samsung Heavy Industries to further tighten his grip, in line with the strategy pursued by his father.
"Though they may not be big, Lee Kun-hee owns shares in the key affiliates to ensure that he can exert direct control," Chung said.
"Eventually, the shareholding structure will need to become more streamlined but that will take a lot of time and resources, so such stake purchases by Jay Y. Lee will help to maintain control in the meantime."
(Reporting by Se Young Lee and Lee Changho; Editing by Ryan Woo and Edmund Klamann) 
Released: 2014-10-28T08:55:46.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas008et
LG Electronics says to end production of plasma display TVs
138 words
28 October 2014
02:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 28 (Reuters) - South Korea's LG Electronics Inc said on Tuesday that it will end the production of plasma display televisions by end-November in order to focus its efforts on liquid crystal display and OLED televisions.
LG Electronics said in a regulatory filing the decision reflects a decline in demand for plasma televisions. The move was widely expected as LCD TVs have become the mainstay product in the global market.
Samsung SDI Co Ltd, sister company of LG's TV rival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, also said in July that it will shut down its plasma panel production business by Nov. 30 due to the decline in overall demand. (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman) 
Released: 2014-10-28T08:46:37.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas006x2
UPDATE 1-German chip equipment maker Aixtron's Q3 oper loss widens
291 words
28 October 2014
02:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Q3 EBIT loss widens 70 pct to 17.9 mln euros from Q2
* Still sees 2014 revenue flat, EBIT loss
* Shares indicated to open 2.8 pct lower (Adds comment, detail, background, shares)
FRANKFURT, Oct 28 (Reuters) - German chip equipment maker Aixtron said on Tuesday its quarterly operating loss had widened as its stepped up investments in new tools and utilisation rates at its light emitting diode (LED) chip customers dropped.
The company said its loss before interest and tax (EBIT) for the third quarter through September widened to 17.9 million euros ($22.7 million) from 10.6 million in the second quarter.
Analysts in a Reuters poll had, on average, expected a loss of 10 million euros.
The company said it still expected 2014 revenue to remain flat compared with last year's 182.9 million euros, while its operating result would improve but remain in the red.
Aixtron said it was experiencing a pick-up in customer interest for its non-LED technologies and applications but it also warned that its LED customers were facing "very competitive industry dynamics".
"This could lead to further consolidation and also to continued requirements for lower total cost of ownership of equipment," the company said.
The warning comes a day after Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said that it will cease its LED lighting business outside of South Korea, reflecting what analysts said was growing competition from Chinese manufacturers.
Aixtron shares were indicated to open 2.8 percent lower, with the German blue chip index seen opening 0.7 percent higher.
($1 = 0.7873 euro) (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by Maria Sheahan) 
Released: 2014-10-28T08:23:29.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas006vd
 LG Electronics says to end production of plasma display TVs
Reuters, 02:48, 28 October 2014, 224 words, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's LG Electronics Inc said on Tuesday that it will end the production of plasma display televisions by end-November in order to focus its efforts on liquid crystal display and OLED televisions.
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas002gx
WSJ.D Technology: Samsung's Primacy Is Tested By Rise of Chinese Players
By Jonathan Cheng   
806 words
28 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
SHANGHAI -- Samsung Electronics Co.'s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong.
The 30-year-old apparel-company employee and Shanghai resident last year traded his Galaxy S3 phone, one of Samsung's most successful products, for a handset made by Beijing-based upstart Xiaomi Inc., which a few months ago displaced Samsung as China's No. 1 smartphone seller.
Xiaomi's phone offers better software and services, Mr. He says, at a fraction of a new Samsung's price. "To me, it looks like it's the same quality, but one costs 2,000 yuan ($327) and the other is 3,500 yuan," says Mr. He. "So why would I pick Samsung?"
Across China -- and around the globe -- other people are starting to feel the same way. Samsung has lost its top position for mobile-phone sales in India, and research firms that track smartphone shipments say it is in danger of being toppled in Thailand and the Philippines. Though Samsung is still the No. 1 smartphone maker globally, it has been losing market share in recent quarters.
In China, where Samsung gets 18% of its total sales, the company is parachuting in executives and outside consultants to assess the problem and figure out how to fix it, according to people with knowledge of the moves. The company is lowering prices for its existing handsets by up to 20% and preparing to roll out a new, cheaper line of smartphones for emerging markets, the people said.
The steps are part of a larger attempt to shore up the mobile-phone division, which accounts for around 60% of Samsung's operating profit.
On Thursday, the company is expected to report that operating profit for the quarter ended in September has fallen by about 60% from a year earlier, following a 20% decline in the quarter before, largely because of what the company acknowledged was "increased competition" in China.
After leading sales in the Chinese smartphone market every quarter for the past two-and-a-half years, Samsung dropped behind Xiaomi during the quarter ended June, tying for second place with Lenovo Group Ltd. and Coolpad Group Ltd., according to data tracker Canalys.
Samsung has cut the bonuses of hundreds of managers in its mobile division, according to people familiar with the matter. In an attempt to streamline operations, Samsung is combining many of its main business divisions in the U.S. under one chief, say people with direct knowledge of the move. That could foreshadow a similar consolidation of leadership at headquarters, where the company is run by three co-chief executives, said one of these people.
In an attempt to bring down its manufacturing costs, Samsung opened a $2 billion mobile-phone factory in Vietnam last year, and in July won approval from Vietnamese authorities for another factory to produce smartphone and tablet displays.
A Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on its China strategy or personnel moves.
Samsung began building up extensive distribution networks to sell its televisions and mobile phones in the 1990s, giving it a sizable head start versus Apple when it began roll out high-end smartphones. Since most Chinese consumers buy their phones at mobile-phone or consumer-electronics retail outlets rather than through carriers, Samsung's network of stores let it reach consumers from small villages to big cities like Beijing and Shanghai.
Recently, however, more Chinese consumers are buying phones online, and many of Samsung's Chinese rivals, like Xiaomi, sell primarily that way, which also lowers their overhead. Xiaomi sells its handsets at close to cost, aiming to make money on software and services sold over the phones instead -- a tactic that lets it undercut Samsung prices.
Samsung's Chinese rivals run Google Inc.'s Android operating system -- like the vast majority of Samsung's smartphones. But they have been more efficient at pre-loading sales-generating apps on their phones and promoting their own app stores.
Samsung, by its own admission, has been slow to respond. The company kept its prices high, even on lower-tier smartphones.
To unload excess inventory, Samsung has lowered some smartphone prices in China by between 10% and 20%, a tactic that could help it recapture some market share in the second half of the year, Canalys says.
The company is also preparing to release -- initially in China -- a new line of smartphones dubbed Galaxy A, a midrange phone that offers many of the features of a high-end Galaxy S device but is priced more competitively with Chinese phones, according to people familiar with the plans.
---
Fanfan Wang in Shanghai contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141028eaas0000p
POLL-S.Korea Sept output seen rebounding, Oct trade to ease
468 words
27 October 2014
23:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* September industrial output seen s/adj +1.9 pct m/m vs -3.8 pct in August
    * October exports seen +1.9 pct y/y vs +6.8 pct in September
    * October CPI seen +1.4 pct y/y vs +1.1 pct in September
    * Output at 2300 GMT Oct 29, trade at 0000 GMT Nov 1 and CPI at 2300 GMT Nov
3
    SEOUL, Oct 28 (Reuters) - Following are forecasts of a Reuters survey of
analysts and economists for South Korea's September industrial output, October
foreign trade data and October consumer price index due to be published
separately between October 30 and November 4 local time (changes in percent):
 
            COMPANY               Industrial    Exports  Imports  Consumer Price
                                    Output                            Index
                                   September        October          October
                                    M/M    Y/Y      Y/Y      Y/Y     M/M     Y/Y
 Barclays                             -    3.6      1.5        -       -       -
 Capital Economics                    -    4.5        -        -       -       -
 Daishin Securities                   -      -      4.0      2.0     0.0     1.5
 Hana Daetoo Securities             2.1    2.9     -1.1     -2.9    -0.1     1.4
 HI Investment & Securities         0.8    1.6      1.8      2.0     0.1     1.6
 HSBC                               1.8    2.4      1.4      1.5       -       -
 JP Morgan                          2.4    2.8        -        -       -       -
 KB Investment & Securities         1.9    2.6      1.0      3.0     0.1     1.5
 Kiwoom Securities                 -0.5    2.7      4.6      3.0    -0.2     1.3
 Korea Investment & Securities      2.1    4.6      1.6     -2.3    -0.2     1.3
 KTB Securities                     2.0    2.2      7.0      4.0     0.2     1.4
 LIG Investment & Securities          -    1.5        -        -       -       -
 Meritz Securities                  0.2    2.8      5.0     -1.0     0.1     1.6
 Moodys Analytics                     -    3.4        -        -       -       -
 NH Investment & Securities           -    2.8      1.5        -       -     1.3
 Samsung Securities                 1.6    3.8      1.7      0.6    -0.2     1.3
 SK Securities                        -    2.3      1.9     -1.8     0.1     1.0
 Societe Generale                   1.0    3.8      5.0     -1.3       -       -
 Standard Chartered                 2.5    3.5        -        -       -       -
 Taurus Investment & Securities     1.0    2.2      3.5      0.5    -0.1     1.4
 Yuanta Securities Korea            1.9    2.3      5.4     -0.7    -0.1     1.4
                                 ______  _____  _______  _______  ______  ______
 Median                             1.9    2.8      1.9      0.6    -0.1     1.4
 Lowest                            -0.5    1.5     -1.1     -2.9    -0.2     1.0
 Highest                            2.5    4.6      7.0      4.0     0.2     1.6
 Prior                             -3.8   -2.8      6.8      8.0    -0.1     1.1
 # of forecasts                      14     20       16       14      12      13
  - No forecasts
 (Reporting by Sohee Kim, Kahyun Yang and Joonhee Yu; Writing by Christine Kim;
Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
Released: 2014-10-28T05:38:33.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas004pm
Asia Crude Oil Tenders Summary-PV Oil sells Su Tu Den term; lower
4,914 words
27 October 2014
23:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
For spot crude tender news stories please click.....    
 For tenders  on oil products please click:    
    Naphtha......       Gasoline...    
    Jet/Diesel...      Fuel Oil... 
OUTSTANDING ASIA/MIDEAST CRUDE OIL TENDERS:   (b = buys / s = sells)
COUNTRY/COMPANY      GRADE          VOL       CLOSE  (VALID)        LOADING DATE
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     Oct 29 (Oct 30)       Dec 29-Jan 1
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bach Ho 300KB+600KB    Oct 28         Dec 7-13, Dec 20-29
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT      s:ESPO 3*730KB Oct 27 (Oct 30) Dec 15-18,23-26, Dec 29-Jan 1
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       2*730KB     Oct 24            Dec 11-15, 16-20
================================================================================
*VIETNAM/PV OIL   s:Su Tu Den min 200KB/month Unipec, Chevron DTD +$0.75 Jan-Jun
*MALAYSIA/PTT        s:Muda         300KB     Exxon small prem to DTD   Dec 7-16
*RUSSIA/SURGUT       s:ESPO         730KB     Dubai +$1.6-$1.8           Dec 4-9
*VIETNAM/PV OIL      s:Te Giac Trang min 6700 b/d domestic               Jan-Jun
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       300KB Vitol DTD +$4.5-$5           Dec 11-16
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den    900KB Shell, SK Energy DTD +$0.5-$0.7    Dec
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao 3*300KB  Local, BP, Taiyo   Dec 7-11,17-21,26-30
                                          DTD +$2.5-$2.9
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC      2-3*500KB Dubai +$1.5-$1.9                   Dec
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:LSC      2*500KB   Dubai +$0.5-$0.8                   Dec
BAHRAIN/BAPCO        s:Banoco AM    500KB S. Korea OSP -5 c/b                Dec
JAPAN/FUJI OIL       b:Qatar Land   500KB OSP +5 c/b                         Dec
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB South Korea Dubai ard +$1.55 Dec 24-31
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:al-Shaheen 6*600KB Exxon(2), Tonen(2), Chevron, Vitol Dec
                                           Dubai +40 c/b to -$1; avg -56 c/b
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol   3*700KB JX, BP, Vitol Dec 1-10,16-25,Dec 24-Jan 2
                                             Dubai +$3.5-$4
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT      s:ESPO 3*730KB JX, Shell, Mercuria Nov 30-Dec 5,Dec 3-8,8-13
                                              Dubai +$1.6-$1.95 
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Dubai +$1.6-$1.7      Nov 30-Dec 5
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB  Mitsui Oman/Dubai ard +$3.5 Dec 15-18
INDIA/IOC            b:Bonny Light 1900KB     NA                             Nov
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rong Doi     220KB     domestic DTD ard flat    Dec 17-23
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Qua Iboe               Vitol                      Dec arr
THAILAND/PTT         b:Azeri Lt    1000KB     Socar                  Dec 1-5 arr
                     b:Kidurong     300KB     trader                 Dec 1-5 arr
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Cakerawala   320KB     South Korea DTD ard +$1.2 Nov 9-18
INDIA/IOC            b:Bonny Light, Nemba 1900KB Shell                       Nov 
                     b:Murban                 BP                             Nov
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     Vitol Dubai +$3.5        Nov 19-28
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Kikeh                                             Dec arr
                     b:Coco                   Chinaoil                   Dec arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       b:Bunga Kekwa  300KB     DTD +$3.3-$3.5           Nov 21-27
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO    3*730KB Unipec Dubai +$2-2.2  Nov 2-5,20-23,24-27
                                              Shell Dubai +$1.80       Nov 15-18                
                                         
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     did not award         Nov 28-Dec 1
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Muda         300KB     SK Energy DTD +$1.5-$1.8 Nov 18-27
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby       2*300KB     Glencore, Shell 
                                    DTD -20 c/b to small premium Nov 7-13, 22-26
RUSSIA/SURGUT s:ESPO 4*730KB Shell, Sinochem, Mercuria Dubai +$1.7-$2 Nov 11-14, 
                                                         Nov 17-20, 22-25, 25-28
INDIA/BPCL           b:Agbami       950KB     Chevron                        Nov
INDIA/IOC            b:Murban     2*500KB     Totsa DTD +90 c/b              Nov
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     Statoil Dubai +$1.3-$1.4  Nov 5-10
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Mercuria Dubai +$1.9      Nov 9-14
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC                    Glencore, India Dubai ard +$3  Nov
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:LSC                    Dubai +$1.5-$1.8               Nov
VIETNAM/PV OIL       b:N'Kossa   700-1000KB   BP                         Nov arr
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol      700KB Statoil Oman/Dubai +$4.25-$4.5 Nov 21-24
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     Japan Dubai ard +$2      Nov 11-18
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     Unipec Dubai +90 c/b     Oct 12-13
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Mitsui Dubai over +$2 Oct 31-Nov 5
JAPAN/FUJI OIL       s:Oman         500KB     Dubai ard -70 c/b              Nov
                     b:Banoco AM    500KB     Shell OSP -85 c/b              Nov
VIETNAM/PV OIL      s:Chim Sao 3*350KB BP,Vitol DTD +$3-$3.5 Nov 4-8,16-20,26-30
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rang Dong    200KB     DTD ard +$1.5            Nov 23-29
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Oman         500KB     Mercuria Dubai -85 c/b         Nov
                     b:Banoco AM    500KB     Shell OSP -60-70 c/b           Nov
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:al-Shaheen 5*600KB SK, Tonen, Exxon Dubai -$2.2-$2.7  Nov
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den 1500KB Shell, Glencore, SK DTD flat to +$1  Nov
ALGERIA/PETRAL       s:Saharan Blend 600KB    NA                       Oct 20-25
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     did not award            Oct 12-13
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        730KB     JX Dubai +$4.3           Nov 13-22
SOUTH SUDAN/GOVT     s:Dar Blend 3*1000KB     China DTD -$11-$12             Oct
SRI LANKA/CEYPETCO   b:Murban       675KB     Shell OSP -15-19 c/b Nov 12-13 arr
                     b:Murban       675KB     ENOC OSP -15-19 c/b    Dec 1-2 arr
INDIA/IOC            b:Okore, Agbami 2*1000KB BP                             Nov
                     b:Kole, Qua Iboe 2*1000KB Glencore                      Nov
INDIA/BPCL           b:Agbami        1000KB   Chevron                end-Nov arr
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Qua Iboe       950KB   Vitol DTD ard +$4.5 cfr    Nov arr
THAILAND/PTT         b:Saharan Blend 1000KB                          Nov 1-5 arr
                     b:NWS cond       300KB                          Nov 1-5 arr
                     b:Seria Lt       600KB  DTD +$4.1 C&F           Nov 1-5 arr
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Su Tu Den      600KB  Itochu                      Nov arr
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC                   SK Dubai ard +$3                Oct
                     s:LSC                   not awarded                     Oct
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO   2*730KB  JX,Vitol Dubai +$1.9-$2   Oct 18-21,27-30
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO      2*730KB Dubai +$1.8-$1.9 Oct 24-28,Oct 28-Nov 1
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       3*730KB   Dubai below +$2 Oct 9-12,15-17,23-26
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO     3*730KB  Dubai +$1.5-$1.8  Oct 10-14,16-20,21-25
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao   2*300KB BP,Vitol DTD +$3.8-$4 Oct 14-18, 25-29
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bunga Kekwa  250KB     DTD ard +$3.5            Oct 15-21
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Hai Thach    200KB     NA                         Sept 21
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Thang Long   200KB     NA                       Oct 10-19
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Muda         300KB     SK DTD +$1-$1.2          Oct 25-31
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Banoco AM    500KB     OSP ard -80 c/b                Oct
                     s:Qatar Marine 500KB     NA                             Oct
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     SK Energy Dubai +$2.5    Oct 11-18
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den 2*250-300KB PDS, Shell DTD ard +$1     Oct 7-31
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol   700KB Glencore Oman/Dubai +$3.6-$3.7 Oct 30-Nov 2
JAPAN/FUJI OIL       b:Banoco AM    500KB     OSP -80 c/b                    Oct
                     s:Oman         500KB     premium to Dubai               Oct
JAPAN/FUJI OIL       b:Murban       500KB     Unipec OSP -93 c/b             Oct
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       300KB     DTD +$5.6-$5.8           Oct 13-18
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby     2*300KB PDS, Chevron DTD ard +$1 Oct 6-12, 20-26
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     JX Dubai ard +$1.7   Sept 30-Oct 5
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     JX Dubai +$1.2-$1.3  Sept 30-Oct 5
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$1.7-$1.8     Oct 4-9
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Basra Lt    2000KB     trader OSP discount            Oct
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rang Dong    200KB     DTD ard +$2.5              Oct 1-7
INDIA/IOC            b:Bonny Light 3*950KB    DTD ard +$1                    Oct
                     b:Plutonio     950KB                                    Oct
THAILAND/PTT         b:Kutubu       650KB     Exxon DTD +$2 C&F         Oct 1-10
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:sweet                  NA                         Oct arr
QATAR/TASWEEQ   s:al-Shaheen 4*600KB P66,Exxon,Shell,Tonen Dubai -$1.5-$2.3  Oct
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     Petraco Dubai +$4.5      Oct 19-28
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     BP Dubai +$1.4-$1.5     Sept 25-28
JAPAN/METI           s:Mexican     1000KB     JX Nippon           Sept 10-Oct 20
                     s:Mexican      890KB     JX Nippon            Nov 10-Dec 20
INDIA/MRPL           b:Escalante   1000KB     Glencore DTD -$2.7      Sept 16-30
MYANMAR/PETRONAS     s:Yetagun cond 350KB     Exxon DTD ard -$1.5          Oct 8
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rang Dong min 6700BPD  Itochu, oil major DTD ard +$3 
                                                             Oct 2014-March 2015
JAPAN/JOGMEC        b:Murban 630KB Mitsubishi OSP +$2-$2.5 C&F Oct 10-Dec 20 arr
TAIWAN/CPC           b:sweet                  NA                         Oct arr
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     did not award           Sept 25-28
***RUSSIA/ONGC       s:Sokol        700KB  Glencore Oman/Dubai +$4.7     Oct 2-5
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Girassol     950KB     Chinese trader        Oct 1-20 arr
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       5*730KB     Unipec (4), JX  Dubai +$2.2-$2.7
                                   Sept 12-15, 15-18, 19-22, 23-26, Sep 28-Oct 1
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       3*730KB Mercuria,Shell,Lukoil Dubai +$2.2-$2.5
                                                        Sept 18-22, 24-28, 26-30
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby       2*300KB Chevron DTD ard +$2.5 Sept 6-13, 20-27
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Cakerawala   330KB     DTD ard +$1             Sept 19-28
                     s:Muda         250KB     DTD ard +$0.5             Sept 1-7
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Oman        1000KB     Dubai +50-60 c/b              Sept
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rong Doi     180KB     domestic buyer          Sept 12-18
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao   3*350KB     BP, Vitol, Taiyo DTD +$3.8-$5.2 
                                                          Sept 4-8, 14-18, 25-29
TAIWAN/FORMOSA   b:Basra Lt 2000KB Petrodiamond OSP -10-20 c/b Sept 25-Oct 5 arr
ALGERIA/PETRAL       s:Saharan Blend 600KB    NA                       Aug 20-25
OMAN/FUJI OIL        s:Oman         500KB   Shell Dubai +60-70 c/b          Sept
BAHRAIN/SHELL        s:Banoco AM    500KB   Fuji Oil OSP ard -50 c/b        Sept
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT   s:ESPO 3*730KB Shell Dubai +$2-$2.8 Aug 31-Sept 5,Sept 3-8,8-13 
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC                    did not award                 Sept
                     s:LSC       3*500KB  Trafigura, Korea Dubai +$2-$2.5   Sept
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB    trader Dubai +$5-$5.5 Aug 29-Sept 7
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     Japan Dubai ard +$7  Sept 24-Oct 3
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     Japan Dubai ard +$4.3   Sept 17-24
INDIA/IOC            b:Qua Iboe, Zafiro 2*950KB Vitol                       Sept
INDIA/IOC            b:Saharan Blend 1000KB   Sonatrach                     Sept
QATAR/TASWEEQ s:al-Shaheen 8*600KB Shell(3),Tonen(2),Chevron,Formosa,Reliance Sept
                                            Dubai +$0.3 to -$1.5; avg -$0.92
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$2.6-$2.65  Sept 6-11 
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Qua Iboe     950KB                         Sept 15-22 arr
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Azeri Lt                                         Sept arr
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     JX Dubai +$2.65          Aug 27-28
RUSSIA/GAZPROM       s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$2.2          mid-Aug
BAHRAIN/BAPCO        s:Banoco AM    500KB     trader OSP -8 c/b             Sept
SUDAN/CNPC           s:Dar Blend   1000KB     DTD -$12-$13             Aug 14-15
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB    Vitol Oman/Dubai ard +$7 Sept 14-17
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB   Statoil Dubai ard +$3.1 Aug 31-Sep 5
INDIA/IOC            b:Qua Iboe+Zafiro 2*950KB Exxon                        Sept
                     b:Amenam       950KB     Total                         Sept
SUDAN/CNPC           s:Dar Blend    600KB     China DTD ard -$14         Aug 4-5 
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Cendor       250KB     DTD +$5.5-$6             Aug 17-23
THAILAND/PTT         b:Saharan Blend 1000KB   DTD ard +$2 C&F       Sept 1-5 arr
KOREA/KNOC           s:Basra Lt    1000KB     BP                        Sept-Oct
                     b:condensate  1000KB     BP             deliver by end-2014
INDIA/MRPL           b:Djeno   650-1000KB     NA                       Aug 16-31
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Thang Long   200KB     Shell DTD small prem     Aug 27-31
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT s:ESPO 4*730KB Unipec, JX Dubai ard +$3.5 Aug 10-13,14-17,18-21,23-26
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bach Ho (heavy) 900KB  BP, Gunvor DTD +$1.5           Aug
                     s:Bach Ho (light) 300KB  BP DTD +$4.7-$4.8              Aug
SRI LANKA/CEYPETCO   b:Murban      675KB Itochu OSP +$1.80 C&F Sept 24-Oct 3 arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Song Doc     250KB     Vitol DTD +$6-$6.5       Aug 16-21
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Cakerawala   320KB  Samsung Total DTD +10-30 c/b Aug 5-14
                     s:Muda         300KB     SK Energy DTD +30-40 c/b  Aug 6-15
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Mercuria Dubai +$3.75    Aug 21-25
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$3.95   Aug 28-Sept 1
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bunga Kekwa  400KB     Glencore DTD +$4-$4.5     Aug 5-11
                     s:Bunga Orkid  350KB     Glencore DTD +$4.5-$4.9  Aug 25-31
TAIWAN/CPC           b:Jubilee      950KB     Vitol                     Sept arr
                     b:Girassol     950KB     Statoil                   Sept arr
                     b:Cabinda      950KB     Unipec                    Sept arr
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     PDS Dubai ard +$3.6      Aug 11-16
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Shell                          Aug
TAIWAN/CPC           b:Oman        2000KB     Shell Dubai +20-30 c/b         Aug
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Dai Hung     300KB  Petrobras DTD just over +$4  Aug 8-14
                                    250KB  Petrobras DTD just over +$4 Aug 20-26
JAPAN/METI           s:Khafji      1890KB     Idemitsu OSP -$0.6  Jul 20-Sept 30
KOREA/KNOC           s:Basra Lt    1000KB     did not award             July-Aug
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     BP Dubai ard +$3.5        Aug 6-11
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC      2*500KB  Shell, Mitsui Dubai +$3-$3.5   August
                     s:LSC        2*500KB Exxon, Trafigura Dubai +$2-$2.5 August
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby 2*300KB Vitol, Chevron DTD +$2.8-3.3 Aug 11-18,24-31
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     Exxon Dubai +$4.3-$4.4     Aug 3-8
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     Japan Dubai ard +$5      Aug 17-24
INDIA/IOC            b:Agbami     2*950KB                                 August
                     b:Girassol     950KB                                 August
                     b:Kissanje     950KB                                 August
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao   3*350KB     Shell, BP, Vitol DTD +$5-$5.5 
                                                           Aug 1-5, 13-17, 26-30
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:al-Shaheen 5*600KB  Exxon,Chevron,Tonen,Reliance   August
                                  Dubai +78 c/b average
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     did not award              Aug 3-8
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$4.85       Aug 13-18
AZERBIAJAN/ONGC      s:Azeri Lt     600KB     PDS DTD +$1.3             July 5-7
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     BP Oman/Dubai +$8.3      Aug 20-23
THAILAND/PTT         b:Seria Lt     600KB     DTD +$5.5-$5.6 C&F  August 1-5 arr
                     b:Gippsland    600KB                         August 1-5 arr                
    
SUDAN/ONGC           s:Nile Blend   600KB     Minas ICP ard -$4       June 26-30
SUDAN/CNPC           s:Nile Blend   600KB     Minas ICP ard -$4       June 24-26 
INDIA/MRPL           b:Coco         600KB     ChinaOil DTD -$1.2 FOB    Aug 1-15
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Shell Dubai +$4.85         Aug 1-6 
INDIA/IOC      b:Kissanje, Agbami 1,900KB     Chevron                     August
                     b:Murban     2,000KB     Shell                       August
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bach Ho      300KB     Vitol DTD ard +$2             July
                                    300KB     Idemitsu DTD +$2.5-$2.9       July
INDIA/BPCL           b:Qua Iboe     950KB     Glencore DTD ard +$3.1  July 15-25
                     b:Agbami       950KB     Glencore DTD ard +$1.6  July 15-25
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       3*730KB     Unipec, Vitol Dubai ard +$4.2 
                                                        July 10-13, 15-18, 18-21 
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Qua Iboe   3*950KB                             August arr
                     b:Su Tu Den    600KB                             August arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Thang Long   200KB     BP DTD -$0.85           July 10-26
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Lukoil Dubai ard +$4.2  July 24-27
                     s:ESPO         730KB   SK Energy Dubai $4.7-$4.8 July 27-30              
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       2*730KB     JX Dubai +$5.45  July 13-17, 21-24
                                    730KB     Dubai +$5.1-$5.2        July 14-17
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       2*730KB     major Dubai ard +$5.1   July 23-26
                                                                   July 29-Aug 1
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Mutineer-Exeter 600KB                            July arr
TAIWAN/CPC           b:Basra Lt    1000KB                                   July
                     b:Upper Zakum  500-1000KB                              July
                     b:Murban       500KB                                   July
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC          500KB     Exxon Dubai +$3.3             July
                     s:LSC        2*500KB     Exxon Dubai +$2               July
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao     300KB     Petrobras DTD +$5.3-$5.5 July 9-13
                                    300KB     Shell DTD +$4.8-$4.9    July 22-26
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       2*730KB     JX Dubai ard +$5.5            July
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan                 Shell DTD +$6.5               July
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Muda         300KB     NA                       July 1-10
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     Dubai ard +$5.5      July 26-Aug 3
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     Vitol Oman/Dubai +$8.2  July 21-24
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     BP Dubai +$7.9           July 3-12
BAHRAIN/BAPCO        s:Banoco AM    500KB     OSP +55-60 c/b                July
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:al-Shaheen 4*600KB  Exxon, Chevron, TonenGeneral     July
                                           Dubai +$0.95-$1.45; avg $1.16
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Oman        1000KB     Dubai +$1.5-$1.6              July
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Basra Lt    2000KB     did not award                 July
TAIWAN/FORMOSA      b:Oriente  700KB Gunvor Dubai -$2.5-$3 DES Jul 20-Aug 20 arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Dai Hung     400KB     NA                      July 19-25
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       600KB     Not awarded             July 15-30
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       2*730KB     Dubai +$5.1-$5.3    July 1-6, 6-11
THAILAND/PTT         b:Cossack      650KB    Woodside DTD +$1.5 C&F July 1-5 arr
TAIWAN/CPC           b:sweet                  NA                        July arr
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Champion     600KB                               July arr
                     b:Azeri Lt     600KB                               July arr
SOUTH SUDAN/CNPC     s:Dar Blend    600KB     Unipec DTD ard -$7        June 2-3
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:TGT      min 10kbpd    Unipec, others DTD +$4    July-Dec
INDIA/IOC            b:Amenam      1000KB     Total                         July
                     b:Hungo, Qua Iboe 2000KB BP                            July
TAIWAN/CPC           b:sweet       1900KB     NA                            June
INDIA/HPCL           b:Qua Iboe    2000KB     Exxon DTD ard +$3.5           June
INDONESIA/PETRAL     s:Saharan Blend 600KB    Shell DTD +$1.2         June 20-25
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Escravos     950KB                               July arr
OMAN/CNODC           s:Oman    180-450KB/MTH  Shell                     June-Dec
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Hai Thach              Domestic DTD +$3-$3.5   June 17-21
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Cakerawala   300KB     Trafigura DTD +$1        June 1-10
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bach Ho      3000KB     
                     (lighter grade)      BP, Exxon, Vitol  DTD +$3.5-$4.5  June
                     (heavier grade)      Chevron, Gunvor, Itochu +$1-$2    June
KOREA/KNOC           s:Oman        2000KB     Unipec                        June
RUSSIA/SURGUT    s:ESPO 2*730KB Gunvor Dubai ard +$4.7 June 22-25,June 28-July 1
TAIWAN/CPC           b:Upper Zakum 2*500KB    Vitol Dubai +75 c/b           June
                     b:Oman          500KB    Mercuria Dubai +$1.1-$1.2     June
                     b:Murban        500KB    BP OSP ard -20 c/b            June
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den min 200KB/month Japan ard +$3.5        July-Dec
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       2*730KB    Gunvor +$4.6-$4.7  June 10-13,12-15
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB   JX Dubai +$4.65-$4.7      June 14-17 
                  s:ESPO 3*730KB Unipec Dubai +$4.65-$4.7 June 21-24,23-26,25-28
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC        3*500KB SK Energy, Shell Dubai +$1.5-$1.9 June
                     s:LSC                    NA                            June
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:sweet                  did not award         July-Dec arr
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:sweet                  did not award             June arr
INDIA/BPCL           b:Qua Iboe    2000KB     Exxon                         June
                     b:Yoho        1000KB                                   June
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB   SK Energy Dubai ard +$4.65 June 5-10
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby       2*300KB     DTD ard +$2        June 1-7, 20-26
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao   2*300KB     DTD +$4.80         June 2-6, 11-15
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den  2*300KB    Major, Japan DTD ard +2.5 June 1-20
SRI LANKA/CEYPETCO  b:Murban 4*90KT Swiss Singapore OSP +$1 DES June 5-14, 21-30, 
                                                    July 8-17, July 24-Aug 2 arr
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     Dubai ard +$5.3          July 3-10
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     JX Dubai +$4.4       May 31-June 5
                     s:ESPO         730KB     Lukoil Dubai +$4.5        June 3-8
INDIA/IOC            b:Zafiro/Qua Iboe 2000KB  Vitol                        June
                     b:Okwuibome    1000KB     Glencore
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB   Glencore Oman/Dubai +$7   June 27-30
QATAR/TASWEEQ  s:al-Shaheen 4*600KB ExxonMobil,Chevron,TonenGeneral,Reliance June
                                     Dubai +$0.75-$1.08; avg $0.89
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       600KB     Shell DTD +$5.5-$6      June 10-20
JAPAN/FUJI OIL       b:Murban       500KB     Shell OSP +5 c/b              June
TAIWAN/FORMOSA  b:Basra Lt 2000KB Shell OSP ard parity FOB mid-June-mid-July arr
                 b:Basra Lt  2000KB     OSP -10-20 c/b FOB mid-June-mid-July arr
TAIWAN/CPC           b:crude                  NA                             May
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     Shell Dubai ard +$6.5   June 19-28
THAILAND/PTT         b:Sokol        700KB     Statoil           June 1-5 arrival
                     b:Pluto cond   650KB     Woodside          June 1-5 arrival
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Lukoil Dubai +$4.40       June 1-6
INDIA/MRPL           b:Kissanje     600KB     Exxon DTD ard parity     June 1-15
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Champion    1500KB                           June arrival
                     b:Cabinda      950KB                           June arrival
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Azeri Lt     600KB                           June arrival
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bunga Orkid  300KB     NA                       May 25-31
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Bach Ho     3600KB     DTD +$3-$5 (lighter grade)     May
                                              DTD +$1-$2 (heavier grade)     May
INDIA/BPCL           b:Qua Iboe    2000KB     Exxon                          May
                     b:Agbami      1000KB     Chevron                        May
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Hai Thach    250KB     Shell DTD ard +$3        May 15-19
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Muda cond    300KB     SK Energy DTD ard -$1     May 6-15
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     China Dubai ard +$4.2    May 27-30
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Dubai just above +$4     May 22-25
                     s:ESPO         730KB   SK Energy Dubai +$4.2-$4.3 May 25-28
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       5*730KB Sinochem, Unipec, Shell  Apr 29-May 2,
                                  Dubai +$3.90-$4.80 May 9-12, 16-19,19-22,24-27
                     s:ESPO         730KB     did not award            May 27-30
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     BP Oman/Dubai +$6.8       June 6-9
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rong Doi cond 190KB    local buyer DTD +$3-3.5  May 18-24
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Glencore Dubai +$4.55    May 12-16
                     s:ESPO         730KB     JX Dubai +$4.1           May 18-22
TAIWAN/FORMOSA       b:Ratawi       500KB                                    May
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Miri         300KB     Shell DTD ard +$7        May 15-19
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC                  Vitol, Mitsui Dubai +$1.5-$2     May
                     s:LSC                  Exxon, Reliance Dubai +$0.5-$1.2 May
INDIA/IOC            b:Nemba, EA              Vitol                          May
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO         730KB     Taiyo Dubai +$4.9-$4.95    May 4-9
                     s:ESPO        2*730KB  did not award Apr 30-May 5, May 8-13
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     SK Energy Dubai +$5.6    May 22-29
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Lukoil Dubai +$4.55       May 6-12
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao   2*300KB     DTD +$6-$6.5      May 10-17, 23-30
VIETNAM/PV OIL     s:Dai Hung     400KB     Petrobras DTD +$4-$4.5   May 16-22
VIETNAM/PETRONAS     s:Ruby         300KB     major DTD +$3.8-$4       May 14-20
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Song Doc     300KB     DTD +$8-$8.5             May 13-19
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:TGT          300KB     trader DTD ard +$3       May 21-25
SOUTH SUDAN/CNPC     s:Dar Blend    600KB     NA                           April
SOUTH SUDAN/GOVT     s:Dar Blend   1000KB     China DTD -$7-$8       April 24-25
                     s:Dar Blend  3*600KB China DTD -$7-$8 Apr 11-12,15-16,28-29
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:al-Shaheen 5*600KB     Exxon, PTT, Reliance           May
                                           Dubai +20-68 c/b; avg +47 c/b
THAILAND/PTT         b:Seria Lt     600KB                            May 1-5 arr
                     b:Grissik cond  30KB                            May 1-5 arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den 200-600KB    Japan DTD +$4-$4.5       May 10-31
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       300KB     DTD +$7-$7.5              May 9-15
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO         730KB     Statoil Dubai +4.95-$5     May 1-6
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     Statoil Dubai +$7.6       May 8-17
                     s:Sokol        700KB     Vitol Dubai +$7.4    May 24-June 2
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:sweet                  not awarded                    May
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC QCP +$2.5-$3 Shell,SK Energy,Samsung Total April-June
                     s:DFC Dubai +$3-$3.5 GS Caltex,S-Oil,JX Nippon   April-June
                     s:LSC         Dubai/QCP +$2-$2.5 Shell, Exxon    April-June
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Hai Thach    250KB     DTD +$2-$3             April 11-15
INDIA/MRPL           b:Dalia        950KB     Total DTD ard -$2.3    April 16-30
INDIA/IOC            b:EA/Qua Iboe 2000KB     Glencore                     April
                     b:Bonny Lt    2000KB     Shell                          May
                     b:Escravos    1000KB     Chevron                        May
AZERBAIJAN/ONGC      s:Azeri Lt     600KB     Trafigura              March 12-14
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     Vitol Oman/Dubai ard +$8 May 16-19
RUSSIA/SAKHALIN      s:Vityaz       730KB     China Dubai +$6.3   April 27-May 4
S.KOREA/KNOC         s:Upper Zakum 2000KB     BP                           April
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Azeri Lt   2*950KB                                May arr
                     b:Seria Lt   3*600KB                                May arr
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO       4*730KB     Dubai ard +$5.3 April 11-14, 13-16
                                                              April 20-23, 26-29
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Ruby  2*300KB Chevron,Shell  DTD +$4.5-$5.1 Apr 1-7,22-28
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Muda         300KB    SK Energy DTD +$1.7-$1.9 April 1-10
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Su Tu Den    300KB     PDS DTD ard +$6       Apr 26-May 2
TAIWAN/CPC           b:Jubilee     1000KB                              mid-April
INDIA/HPCL           b:Qua Iboe    1000KB                                  April
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       2*730KB     Dubai ard +$5.3 April 12-16, 18-22
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     Glencore Oman/Dubai +$7.5  May 1-4
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Azeri Lt     600KB                        April 15-20 arr
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Chim Sao     300KB     Shell DTD ard +$6.7     April 8-12 
                     s:Chim Sao     300KB     PDS DTD ard +$7.2      April 19-23
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:ESPO  2*730KB Shell Dubai +$5.5 +$5.2-$5.3 Apr 1-6, 20-26
                     s:ESPO 2*730KB Chevron Mitsui Dubai+$4.8-$5.5 Apr 3-8,14-18 
RUSSIA/SURGUT        s:ESPO       2*730KB     Dubai +$5.3-$5.4   April 1-6, 6-11
THAILAND/PTT         b:Saharan Blend 1000KB                        April 1-7 arr
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:Al-Shaheen 3*600KB  Exxon, Reliance Dubai +$0.8-$1  April
RUSSIA/ROSNEFT       s:Sokol        700KB     BP Dubai +$8.4      March 29-Apr 7
                     s:Sokol        700KB     BP Dubai +$7.7-$7.8    April 15-24
QATAR/TASWEEQ        s:DFC    Oil majors, South Korea  Dubai +$2.40-$2.60  April
                     s:LSC    Oil major, India         Dubai +$1.80-$1.90  April     
VIETNAM/PV OIL       s:Rang Dong 2*200-250KB/mo  Unipec DTD +$4.2-$4.3  Apr-Sept
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Saharan Blend 630KB                             April arr    
INDIA/IOC            b:Bonny Lt    1000KB     Shell                        April
                     b:EA          1000KB     Shell                        April
                     b:Escravos    1000KB     Chevron                      April
                     b:Qua Iboe    1000KB     Glencore                     April
                     b:Kole        1000KB     Glencore                     April
RUSSIA/ONGC          s:Sokol        700KB     BP Oman/Dubai +$8.5    April 16-19
INDONESIA/PETRAL     b:Qua Iboe   2*950KB                              April arr
                     b:Escravos     950KB                              April arr
                     b:Azeri Lt     950KB                              April arr
                     b:ESPO         600KB                              April arr
MALAYSIA/PETRONAS    s:Labuan       300KB     DTD ard +$6.7                April
================================================================================
  *** updates tender results    
  **  new tender issues for the day
  *   new tender awards for the day
    
 (Asia Energy Desk)
Released: 2014-10-28T05:02:07.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas003hq
 Samsung¡¦s China-Sized Problem
WSJ Blogs, 19:58, 27 October 2014, 283 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. has a China-sized problem on its hands.
But you can boil down a lot of the troubles to the changing tastes of people like Hu Bangwei, a 40-year-old marketing executive at an educational company in Shanghai.
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaas0002t
S.Korean shares edge lower as investors eye Fed meeting; won firmer
463 words
27 October 2014
21:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* KOSPI drifts lower with investors on guard ahead of FOMC
    * Won firms vs dlr as investors brace for dovish Fed
comments
    By Joonhee Yu
    SEOUL, Oct 28 (Reuters) - South Korean shares were trading
slightly lower on Tuesday morning after a choppy session as
investors waited on the sidelines ahead of the U.S Federal
Reserve's two-day policy meeting ending on Wednesday.    
    The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) was
down 0.2 percent at 1,928.10 points as of 0155 GMT. 
    Data indicating a slowdown in the U.S. services sector,
which dipped to a six-month low in October, as well as weak
German business sentiment also put downward pressure on
equities. 
    The Fed is expected to announce the end of its quantitative
easing program when its meeting concludes, but analysts say it
is a foregone conclusion and don't expect markets to react
significantly.
    "We believe stocks will rally, having already priced in
concerns in September and October... and while liquidity was
almost the only concern after QE1 and QE2, economic conditions
and earnings are now also being considered," said Samsung
Securities in a note to clients.
    "With other nations turning to stimulus, global liquidity
levels should remain solid even after QE3 finishes."
    Oil refiners were battered as crude prices plumbed fresh
two-year lows, with Goldman Sachs cutting its price target of
West Texas Intermediate from $94.83 per barrel this year to
dd$73.75 in 2015.
    SK Innovation, South Korea's largest refiner,
fell 2.1 percent while S-Oil tumbled 3.3 percent.
    Defensive sectors such as telecoms bucked broader trends, as
SK Telecom, South Korea's largest mobile services
provider, rose 2.4 percent while KT Corp gained 2.4
percent. 
    Samsung Life Insurance shares were trading 1.4
percent higher while Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance 
added 1.9 percent after Samsung Group said its conglomerate
heir-apparent Jay Y. Lee was looking to acquire a stake in the
two insurance arms. 
    The South Korean won was a shade higher on Tuesday as
investors, braced for more dovish comments from the Federal
Reserve, turned bearish on the dollar.
    The currency was quoted at 1,050.7 to the dollar
as of 0155 GMT, compared to Monday's closing rate of 1,052.2.
    December futures on three-year treasury bonds shed 3
basis points to trade at 108.83. 
    
                       0155 GMT    Prev close
 Dollar/won            1,050.7       1,052.2
 Yen/won            9.7404/435        9.7403
 *KTB futures           107.83        107.86
 KOSPI                1,928.10      1,931.97
 * Front-month futures on three-year treasury bonds
 (Editing by Eric Meijer)
Released: 2014-10-28T03:30:03.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas002bd
Samsung Group heir apparent seeks small stakes in insurance affiliates
218 words
27 October 2014
20:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 28 (Reuters) - Samsung Group heir apparent Jay Y. Lee is looking to acquire small stakes in Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd and Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co Ltd , South Korea's largest conglomerate said on Tuesday.
Lee is seeking regulatory approval to acquire a 0.1 percent stake each in Samsung Life and Samsung Fire & Marine, Samsung Group said in an email statement.
He is re-investing after-tax proceeds of 25.2 billion won ($23.97 million) from selling his stake in Samsung Asset Management Co Ltd to Samsung Life earlier this year, according to the statement.
The planned stake purchases do not represent a major change in ownership structure of both insurance companies, which are already controlled by Samsung Group.
Lee has no plans to buy more shares in Samsung Life or Samsung Fire & Marine at present, Samsung Group said, without saying why he wants to make the investments.
The Financial Services Commission, the country's financial regulator, will likely decide whether to approve the request on Wednesday, an official at the regulator said. (1 US dollar = 1,051.1000 Korean won) (Reporting by Se Young Lee and Lee Changho; Editing by Ryan Woo) 
Released: 2014-10-28T02:08:32.000Z
Document LBA0000020141028eaas001gv
 Samsung Group heir apparent seeks small stakes in insurance affiliates
Reuters, 20:08, 27 October 2014, 306 words, (English)
SEOUL Oct 28 (Reuters) - Samsung Group heir apparent Jay Y. Lee is looking to acquire small stakes in Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd and Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co Ltd , South Korea's largest conglomerate said on Tuesday.
Document WCLBA00020141028eaas000gs
 No Longer No. 1? Samsung Loses Its Edge in China
WSJ Blogs, 18:09, 27 October 2014, 305 words, (English)
Samsung Electronics Co. ¡¦s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong. As the WSJ's Jonathan Cheng reports:
Document WCWSJB0020141028eaar000jj
Stealthy Norwegian entrepreneur aims to revolutionize U.S. energy storage
By Nichola Groom   
880 words
27 October 2014
16:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 27 (Reuters) - Jostein Eikeland, a Norwegian entrepreneur with a mixed record of success, is hoping to jolt the world of energy storage.
On Tuesday, Eikeland's latest venture, Alevo, will unveil a battery that he says will last longer and ultimately cost far less than rival technologies.
The technology, which is meant to store excess electricity generated by power plants, has been developed by Eikeland in secret for a decade.
"We've been very stealth," Eikeland said in a telephone interview. "We didn't know if we were going to succeed."
Martigny, Switzerland-based Alevo Group is gearing up to start manufacturing batteries next year at a massive former cigarette plant near Charlotte, North Carolina, that it says will employ 2,500 people within three years.
Eikeland, 46, said Alevo, named for the inventor of the battery, Alessandro Volta, has $1 billion from anonymous Swiss investors and has taken no state funding or incentives.
Alternately brash and self-deprecating, Eikeland did not shy away from discussing his up-and-down past. He founded software company TeleComputing Inc during the dot-com boom, helped take it public on the Oslo stock exchange, then left in 2002 after the tech bubble burst.
He later invested heavily in and took the helm of Sweden-based auto parts manufacturer, TMG International, which went bankrupt in 2008. Broke, he was forced to sell his lavish homes to pay his taxes, according to media reports that were confirmed by representatives for Alevo.
After TMG, Eikeland spent a few years investing in software and battery technologies, many of which he admits failed.
"I know how hard it is to lose eight of your 10 fingers," he said. "I wish I had somebody else to blame."
EASIER SAID THAN DONE
Claims of technological breakthroughs from unfamiliar companies are common in the world of green technology. Many startups fizzle out before they achieve mass production. Among the recent high-profile flameouts: battery maker A123 and solar panel maker Solyndra.
"One billion dollars is a colossal amount of capital raised for any clean-tech company," said Raymond James analyst Pavel Molchanov, who said he is not familiar with Alevo. "It doesn't mean it's going to be a smashing success."
Typically in high-tech manufacturing, companies use pilot projects to prove their technology to investors and potential customers before ramping up. That's not how Eikeland is proceeding.
"Building as big as we did, it might seem a little bit risky," said Eikeland, who described himself as "a controversial guy."
Producing on a mass scale will make Alevo's technology cost- effective from the start, Eikeland said. The high cost of grid storage has prevented it from being deployed more widely.
Eikeland plans to deliver 200 megawatts of batteries - roughly enough to power 100,000 homes - into the U.S. market next year and is in talks with big utilities, which he hopes will become customers.
Alevo's approach stands in stark contrast to the public announcement last month of Tesla Motors Inc's planned $5 billion factory in Nevada, which will make batteries for electric cars. Tesla says its plant will employ 6,500 people by 2020. It will receive more than $1 billion of state incentives.
"Building a $1 billion facility in stealth mode is definitely unusual," said Dan Reicher, executive director of the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance at Stanford University. Reicher, a former green technology investor, said he was not familiar with Alevo or its technology.
State and county officials in North Carolina confirmed that Alevo has not sought any business incentives.
PACKING A LOT OF POWER
The company has created what it calls GridBanks, which are shipping containers full of thousands of battery cells. Each container can deliver 2 megawatts of power, enough to power up to 1,300 homes for an hour.
The batteries use lithium iron phosphate and graphite as active materials and an inorganic electrolyte - what Eikeland called the company's "secret sauce" - that extends longevity and reduces the risk of burning. They can be charged and discharged over 40,000 times, the company said.
That is about four times as much as rival batteries, said Sam Wilkinson, who follows energy storage for IHS Technology. Wilkinson, who said he was briefed by Alevo on its plans, said that if the batteries work as promised they will constitute a technological leap.
Grid storage has become critical as more renewables are introduced into the world's power supply. For instance, batteries can store power generated during windy nights to use during the day when the wind may not be blowing, or can extend solar power into the hours after the sun goes down.
The industry is expected to grow to $19 billion by 2017 from just $200 million in 2012, according to research firm IHS CERA.
Eikeland holds several patents in the United States related to battery technology. The company will compete with established manufacturers like Samsung and France's Saft as well as a handful of privately held startups like Enervault and Primus Power. (Additional reporting by Gwladys Fouche in Oslo; Editing by Eric Effron and Douglas Royalty) 
Released: 2014-10-27T22:20:05.000Z
Document LBA0000020141027eaar00lri
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Flat, Crude Pushes $80
MoneyBeat, 27 October 2014, 787 words, Paul Vigna, (English)
<dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd wp-cite-dd" style="text-align: right;">Agence France-Presse/Getty ...
Document BC08551020141027eaar000h2
 Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Flat, Crude Pushes $80
WSJ Blogs, 12:47, 27 October 2014, 752 words, By Paul Vigna, (English)
Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 down 0.15% at 1961.63. DJIA up 0.07% at 16817.94. Nasdaq Comp up 0.05% at 4485.93. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.257%. Nymex crude oil down 0.01% at $81.00. Gold down 0.2% at ...
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar00693
 Amazon Pokes at Chromecast and Roku With $39 Fire TV Stick
WSJ Blogs, 07:06, 27 October 2014, 507 words, By Wilson Rothman, (English)
Amazon just introduced Fire TV Stick, a $39?video-streaming HDMI device that goes up against Google's $35 Chromecast and Roku's $50 Streaming Stick. Fire TV Stick comes with a remote, but more importantly packs a processor and memory that ...
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar004pj
BREAKINGVIEWS-Google makes U.S. trade arbiter look patently daft
563 words
27 October 2014
14:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
By Reynolds Holding
NEW YORK, Oct 27 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Google is making America's trade arbiter look patently daft. The search giant and other technology companies say an International Trade Commission ban on imports of infringing items in digital form could disrupt the internet. Websites and cloud computing firms could also become even easier prey for patent trolls.
The ITC's remit is to block foreign "articles" that violate intellectual property rights. A recent case, though, raised the novel question of whether the term "articles" includes digital models imported electronically to help make teeth-straightening devices. The commission said in April that it does - despite decades of defining "articles" to mean only tangible goods.
The context makes the ruling understandable up to a point. Music, software, data for 3D printers and many other bits of information move over the internet. If that creates loopholes that skirt patents, just as clever legal structures lacking economic substance help avoid tax, say, there's an argument for making the workarounds illegal.
But that's not the ITC's call. As Google, eBay and others stress in a legal brief filed under the auspices of the Internet Association, allowing a minor U.S. agency to regulate internet traffic could seriously impede the global movement of data. It would also encourage so-called trolls, which own patents but make nothing, to file lawsuits demanding that the ITC block websites, file-sharing services and a host of other online businesses.
The commission is already a favorite forum for trolls, which account for about a quarter of its cases. And no wonder: The ITC decides disputes in half the time taken by federal courts and has more leeway to issue orders quashing alleged infringers. The likes of Apple and Samsung even use it as a battleground for their smartphone wars. The agency, created in 1916 to support American trade policy, holds almost a fifth of U.S. patent trials.
Thorny issues like how to protect intellectual property from online infringement are for Congress to decide - or at least courts steeped in precedent. A federal appeals court is about to weigh in on the teeth-straightening case. To paraphrase Google's corporate motto, it's the perfect opportunity to remind the ITC not to be evil. 
              
              
              
              
CONTEXT NEWS
              
- Google and dozens of other internet companies on Oct. 16 filed briefs urging the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to reverse an International Trade Commission ruling that would ban imports of digital data used to create patent-infringing products.
- The ITC ruled in April that electronically transmitted information qualifies as an "article" that can be banned under the U.S. Tariff Act. The ruling came in a lawsuit filed by Align Technology against ClearCorrect Operating for allegedly infringing patents on teeth-straightening devices. ClearCorrect generated digital models in Pakistan and then transmitted them to Texas so they could be transformed into actual braces.
- Oral arguments before the appeals court have not yet been scheduled.
- Legal brief: http://bit.ly/1wuTrE8
RELATED COLUMN
iWar and Peace
- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (On Twitterhttps://twitter.com/holdingren. Editing by Richard Beales and Martin Langfield) 
Released: 2014-10-27T20:43:16.000Z
Document LBA0000020141027eaar00jws
 Samsung scales down LED lighting as outlook dims
Reuters India, 06:41, 27 October 2014, 644 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
By Se Young Lee SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said on Monday that it will cease its light emitting diode (LED) lighting business outside of South Korea, scaling back what was identified as a key growth business just four ...
Document WC45421020141027eaar0001n
Asia Crude Oil Trades-Dec Qatar Marine sell in discounts
4,232 words
27 October 2014
05:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
GRADE        Dates Vol      Price            Seller/Buyer
    Oct 27
    QATAR MARINE Dec            OSP -10-15 c/b  
    
    Oct 21
    MURBAN       Dec            OSP ard +15 c/b
    DAS          Dec            OSP ard +10 c/b
    
    Oct 17
    UPPER ZAKUM  Dec            OSP +80c-$1      Exxon/
    BANOCO AM    Dec            parity to OSP    
    
    Oct 15
    AL-SHAHEEN   Dec            Dubai -$0.7-$1   
    
    Oct 9
    BAYU UNDAN   Nov   650KB    DTD -$3.1-$3.3   Inpex/Trafigura
    
    Sept 25
    BASRA LT     Nov  2000KB    OSP +1-9 c/b     Petronas/major
    QATAR MARINE Nov 4*500KB    Dubai -$2-$2.2   Occidental, Unipec, Itochu/
       
    Sept 23
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov   500KB    OSP -$1.2        
    QATAR MARINE Nov   500KB                     Petro-diamond/India
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov   500KB    OSP -$1          Shell/Vitol
    
    Sept 19
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov   500KB                     Exxon/Petro-diamond
    QATAR MARINE Nov   500KB                     Petro-diamond/Exxon
    
    Sept 18
    DAS          Nov           OSP -50-55 c/b    /Japan, India
    LABUAN       Nov   300KB   DTD ard +$6       Petronas/Chevron
    
    Sept 16
    AL-SHAHEEN   Oct 5*600KB Dubai -$2-$2.5 Maersk,Unipec/SK,Tonen,Chevron
    MURBAN       Nov   500KB   OSP -45-50 c/b    Exxon/Glencore
    MURBAN       Nov   500KB   OSP -45-50 c/b    Itochu/Brightoil
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov 2*500KB   OSP -50 c/b
    
    Sept 12
    MURBAN       Nov           Dubai ard +$2     PDS/Thai Oil
    
    Sept 8
    VITYAZ       Nov  730KB    Dubai ard +$2     Sakhalin Energy/
    
    Sept 1
    NWS COND     Oct  650KB    DTD -$2.2         Woodside/
    ENFIELD      Oct  550KB    DTD +$7.1         Woodside/China
    
    Aug 28
    MURBAN       Oct           Dubai ard +$3     /PTT, Thai Oil
    VITYAZ       Oct 2*730KB   Dubai +$1.3-$1.8  Sakhalin Energy/
    
    Aug 27
    NWS COND     Oct  650KB    DTD ard -$2.9     Shell/
    NWS COND     Oct  650KB    DTD ard -$2.8     Chevron/
    
    Aug 22
    DAS          Oct  500KB   OSP -80 c/b        Total/Glencore
    
    Aug 20
    QATAR MARINE Oct  500KB   OSP -80 c/b        Mitsui/Shell
    UPPER ZAKUM  Oct  500KB   OSP -70 c/b        
   
    Aug 19
    DAS          Oct  500KB   OSP -$1            Total/Glencore
    
    Aug 14
    AL-SHAHEEN   Oct  4*600KB Dubai -$0.3-$1.5  Maersk, Unipec/
    
    July 25
    BANOCO AM    Sept  500KB   OSP close to -$1
    DAS          Sept  500KB   OSP -10 c/b        
    TAPIS        Sept 2*300KB  DTD $3-$4         /major, trader
    
    July 24
    LABUAN       Sept          DTD ard +$6       /PTT
    QATAR MARINE Sept 2*500KB  OSP -30-40 c/b    Occidental/majors
    QATAR MARINE Sept 2*500KB  OSP -30-40 c/b    Unipec/major, end user
    
    July 21
    MURBAN       Sept  500KB  OSP -10-20 c/b     /Japan
    DAS          Sept  500KB  OSP -20 c/b        Total/Japan
    QATAR MARINE Sept  500KB  Dubai +20-30 c/b   Occidental/Japan
    
    July 18
    VITYAZ      1H Sep 2*730KB  Dubai +$4.5-$5.2 Sakhalin Energy/
    
    July 17
    MURBAN       Sept  500KB   OSP -25 c/b       trader/Thailand
    DFC          Sept 3*500KB Dubai +$3.2-$3.5 Shell,Mitsui,Tasweeq/Korea,Japan
    
    July 15
    AL-SHAHEEN   Sept  4*600KB Dubai -80 c/b to +25 c/b Maersk, Unipec/
    NWS COND     Aug/Sep 650KB DTD -$3-$3.20     Shell/
    
    July 14
    SOKOL        Sep           Dubai ard +$7     SODECO/Japan
    
    July 8
    PYRENEES     Aug  550KB    DTD +$6.5-$7      Apache/
    
    July 2
    BASRA LT     Aug  2000KB   OSP -1-9 c/b      Chinese/Vitol
    
    June 26
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB    DTD -$3-$3.2      Chevron/Samsung Total
    BAYU UNDAN   Aug  650KB    DTD ard -$4.5     Conoco/Exxon
    KUTUBU       Aug 2*600KB   DTD +20-25 c/b Oil Search,Exxon/Caltex Australia
    
    June 25
    NWS COND     Aug 2*650KB                     BHP/Samsung Total
    
    June 24
    KIKEH        Aug           DTD above +$6
    LABUAN       Aug           DTD ard +$6.9     Petronas/Exxon
    
    June 23
    MURBAN       Aug  2*500KB  OSP +20-30 c/b    /Thailand
    PYRENEES     Aug   550KB   DTD ard +$7       /China
    
    June 20
    MURBAN       Aug           OSP +15-20 c/b    /Japan
    
    June 18
    QATAR LAND   Aug 2*500KB   OSP +3 c/b        /Japan
    QATAR MARINE Aug           OSP -10-19 c/b    /Japan
    DAS BLEND    Aug           OSP +12 c/b       /Japan
    
    June 17
    DAS BLEND    Aug           OSP +13-15 c/b    /Japan
    
    June 16
    MURBAN       Aug           OSP +15-19 c/b    /Japan
    DAS BLEND    Aug           OSP +18-19 c/b    /Japan
    QATAR MARINE Aug           OSP -9-10 c/b     /Japan
    AL-SHAHEEN   Aug 4*600KB   Dubai +$0.7-$1    Maersk, Unipec/
    
    June 12
    UPPER ZAKUM  Aug 2*500KB   OSP +10 c/b       Shell/Vitol, Trafigura
    
    June 5
    NWS COND     July 650KB    DTD ard -$2.5     Shell/Samsung Total
    
    May 29
    ESPO         July 730KB    Dubai +$4.7       Lukoil/Shell
    ESPO         July 730KB    Dubai +$4.7       Gazprom Neft/
    
    May 27
    Cossack      July 650KB    DTD +$0.5-$0.6    BHP Billiton/
   
    May 23
    MURBAN       July          OSP +27 c/b       major/Japan
    
    May 21
    DFC          July 2*500KB Dubai +$3          Tasweeq/Japan, Korea
    LSC          July 500KB   Dubai +$1.6-$1.8   Tasweeq/Japan
    
    May 20
    DAS BLEND    July          OSP +10-20 c/b    /Reliance
    DAS BLEND    July          OSP +30-40 c/b    /Japan
    QATAR MARINE July          OSP +20-30 c/b    /Japan
    
    May 15
    MURBAN       July          OSP +30 c/b       /Fuji Oil
    MURBAN       July          OSP +33 c/b    
    MURBAN       July          OSP +35-40 c/b    
    BANOCO AM    July          OSP +40 c/b       /Fuji Oil
    UPPER ZAKUM  July          OSP +15 c/b   
    
    May 14
    AL-SHAHEEN   July 4*600KB  Dubai +$1.3-$1.7  Maersk, Unipec/
    
    May 8
    NWS COND     June  650KB   DTD -$2.3-$2.5    BP/Samsung Total
    
    May 2
    KITAN        June  550KB   DTD -$2.3-$2.5    Eni/South Korea 
    BAYU UNDAN   June  650KB   DTD -$3.5-$4      Conoco/Exxon
      
    April 29
    LOWER ZAKUM  June          OSP -97 c/b       Total/India
    NWS COND     June  650KB                     BHP/Samsung Total
    
    April 28     
    COSSACK      June  650KB   DTD parity to +$0.5 Chevron/trading firm
       
    April 25
    BASRA LT     June 2000KB   OSP -10-20 c/b    /Shell
    BASRA LT     June 2000KB   OSP -10-20 c/b    /HMEL
    BASRA LT     June 2000KB                     /Reliance
    MURBAN       June          OSP -1-9 c/b      /India
    
    April 23
    LOWER ZAKUM  June          OSP -10-20 c/b
    UMM SHAIF    June          OSP -10-20 c/b
    
    April 22
    QATAR MARINE June          OSP +5-10 c/b    
    BANOCO AM    June          OSP parity to +5 c/b 
    
    April 16
    BANOCO AM    June          OSP -5-10 c/b     /Japan
    QATAR MARINE June          OSP parity to +5 c/b  /Japan
    LOWER ZAKUM  June          OSP parity to +5-6 c/b  /Japan
    UMM SHAIF    June          OSP parity to +15-19 c/b /Japan
             
    April 15
    AL-SHAHEEN   June  600KB   Dubai ard +$1.1   Maersk/Japan
    AL-SHAHEEN   June  600KB   Dubai ard +$1.1   Unipec/Exxon
    OMAN         June  500KB   Dubai ard +$1     
    UPPER ZAKUM  June          OSP +10-20 c/b
    
    April 10
    MURBAN       June         OSP ard +15 c/b    BP/Vitol   
    NWS          May  650KB   DTD ard -$3        Petro Diamond/
    BAYU UNDAN   May  650KB   DTD -$4-$5         ConocoPhillips/
    
    April 7
    BASRA LT     May 2*2000KB OSP -10-20 c/b     /India
    
    April 4
    NWS COND     May  650KB   DTD -$3-$3.3       Woodside/Samsung Total
    
    March 27
    SOKOL        June 700KB   Dubai +$6.8        Marubeni/Korea
    
    March 26
    BANOCO AM    May          OSP -80 c/b        Chinese firm/oil major
    
    March 25
    QATAR MARINE May          OSP -80-85 c/b     
    COSSACK      May  600KB   DTD ard +$1        Mitsui/
    
    March 24
    MURBAN       May          OSP -20-30 c/b     
    QATAR LAND   May  500KB   OSP -70-80 c/b     Cosmo/Reliance
    
    March 21
    NWS COND     May  650KB   DTD ard -$2.50     Shell/
    
    March 20
    MURBAN       May          OSP -50-60 c/b     /Thailand
    UMM SHAIF    May 2*500KB  OSP -50-70 c/b     /Cosmo
    UPPER ZAKUM  May          OSP -50-70 c/b    
    QATAR MARINE May          Dubai related      /India
    QATAR MARINE May          OSP -80 c/b        /JX
    
    March 18
    MURBAN       May          OSP -50 c/b        /Japan
    BANOCO AM    May          OSP -52-53 c/b     /Japan
    
    March 13
    AL-SHAHEEN   May          Dubai +$0.9-$1     Maersk,Marubeni/Unipec,Reliance
    
    March 12
    KUTUBU       April 2*600KB  N/A              Oil Search/Caltex Australia
    
    March 5
    PYRENEES     April        DTD +$6.4-$6.9           /China
    NWS COND     April  650KB DTD -$1.5-$1.7     BHP/
    
    March 3
    QATAR MARINE April        Dubai +20-25 c/b or OSP -$2 /Reliance
    
    Feb 27
    BASRA LIGHT  April        OSP +10-30 c/b           /Essar
    
    Feb 24
    MURBAN       April        OSP -$1
    
    Feb 21
    QATAR MARINE April        OSP -$1            /Japan
    
    Feb 20
    MURBAN       April        OSP -50 c/b        /Thailand
    LOWER ZAKUM  April        OSP -50-60 c/b
    UMM SHAIF    April        OSP -50 c/b
    UPPER ZAKUM  April        OSP -70 c/b
    QATAR MARINE April        OSP -80 c/b        /Chevron
    BANOCO AM    April        small discount to OSP BP/Statoil
    
    Feb 18
    BANOCO AM    April        OSP +20 c/b        /Japan
    
    Feb 17
    AL-SHAHEEN   April 2*600KB Dubai +$1-$1.2    Maersk/
    MURBAN       April        OSP -35 c/b        /Japan
    
    Jan 24
    UMM SHAIF    March  500KB OSP -75 c/b        Totsa/Shell
    
    Jan 23
    UMM SHAIF    March  500KB OSP -65 c/b        Totsa/Idemitsu
    
    Jan 22
    PYRENEES     March 2*550KB DTD ard +$7       BHP, Apache/China
    
    Jan 21
    QATAR MARINE March        OSP -50-55 c/b
    UPPER ZAKUM  March  500KB OSP -25 c/b        Chevron/Trafigura
    
    Jan 20
    BANOCO AM    March        OSP +15 c/b
    MURBAN       March        OSP +15-20 c/b
    
    Jan 17
    AL-SHAHEEN   March 4*600KB Dubai +$1-$1.1    Maersk, Unipec/
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB   DTD -$0.9-$1       Mitsui/Chinaoil
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB   DTD -$1.5          Shell/
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB   DTD -$0.9-1.2      Chevron/
    
    Jan 15
    MURBAN       March        OSP +1-9 c/b       /Thailand, S. Korea
    
    Jan 13
    BASRA LT     Feb          OSP +75 c/b        Petronas/major
    
    Dec 24
    TAPIS        Feb  400KB   DTD above +$6.5    Petronas/end user
    BUNGA KEKWA  Feb  350KB   DTD ard +$5        Petronas/trader
    
    Dec 18
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB   DTD -$2-2.2        BHP, Chevron/Samsung Total
    BANOCO AM    Feb          parity to OSP      /Japan
    MURBAN       Feb          OSP +10 c/b
    
    Dec 17
    BAYU UNDAN   Feb  650KB   DTD ard -$2.5      Conoco/Exxon
    MURBAN       Feb          OSP +1-9 c/b       /Singapore, Japan
    UPPER ZAKUM  Feb          OSP -60-70 c/b     Glencore/Zhenhua
    QATAR MARINE Feb          OSP -60-65 c/b     Occidental/JX, Cosmo
    
    Dec 16
    MURBAN       Feb          OSP ard -10 c/b    /China
    AL-SHAHEEN   Feb          Dubai ard +$1.9    Maersk/
    PYRENEES     Feb   550KB  DTD ard +$7        /Unipec
    NILE BLEND   Jan  1000KB  ICP ard parity     Petronas-ONGC/China
    KITAN        Jan   550KB  DTD ard -$0.5      Petronas/
    
    Dec 13
    VITYAZ       Feb   730KB  Dubai ard +$5.5    Sakhalin/Japan
    
    Dec 6
    VITYAZ       Feb  2*730KB Dubai ard +$4.5    Sakhalin/GS Caltex, SK
    
    Nov 20
    BANOCO AM    Jan  2*500KB OSP -50 c/b        
    BASRA LT     Jan  2000KB  OSP +8 c/b         ENOC/HMEL
    
    Nov 20
    BANOCO AM    Jan          OSP -30 c/b        China/Japan
     
    Nov 19
    COSSACK      Dec   600KB  DTD below +$1      Petronas/Petrobras
    QATAR MARINE Jan          OSP +40-45 c/b          /JX, Cosmo
    MURBAN       Jan          OSP +50-60 c/b
    
    Nov 18
    AL-SHAHEEN   Jan          Dubai +$2-$2.6     Maersk, Marubeni/
    
    Nov 15
    MURBAN       Jan          OSP +50 c/b
    UPPER ZAKUM  Jan          OSP +80 c/b        Exxon/
    
    Nov 14
    MURBAN       Jan          OSP +10-15 c/b     Exxon/Japan
    UPPER ZAKUM  Jan          OSP +50 c/b        Exxon/Unipec
    
    Nov 13
    NWS COND     Jan 650KB    DTD ard -$2        BHP/Samsung Total
    NWS COND     Dec 650KB    DTD -$0.5 C&F      Woodside/Thailand
    Nov 6
    NWS COND     Dec 2*650KB  DTD -$1.5-$2       Chevron, Mitsui/
                                                   Samsung Total   
    
    Oct 30
    BAYU UNDAN   Dec   650KB  DTD ard -$2.5      Conoco/Unipec
    
    Oct 28
    UPPER ZAKUM  Dec      small premium to OSP   Exxon/
    BANOCO AM    Dec          OSP -30 c/b              /Cosmo
    MURBAN       Dec          parity to OSP
    
    Oct 25
    MURBAN       Dec          OSP -50 c/b     
     
    Oct 23
    BANOCO AM    Dec          OSP -50 c/b        Statoil/
    UPPER ZAKUM  Dec          OSP -30 c/b        Exxon/JX
    MURBAN       Dec          OSP -80 c/b
    NILE BLEND   Nov   600KB  ICP Minas -$2.66   ONGC/MRPL   
    
    Oct 22
    UPPER ZAKUM  Dec          OSP -70 c/b
    QATAR MARINE Dec          OSP -50 c/b              /JX
            
    Oct 21
    MURBAN       Dec          OSP -$1-$1.1       
    QATAR MARINE Dec          OSP -50 c/bbl      Occidental, Unipec/
    
    Oct 18
    MURBAN       Dec          OSP -85c/b         Total/Thai
    UPPER ZAKUM  Dec          OSP -50c/b 
             
    Oct 16
    AL-SHAHEEN   Dec          Dubai +$1.3 +$2    Maersk/Exxon, TonnenGeneral
                                                        Reliance, PTT
      
    Sept 27
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov   500KB  OSP +5 c/b         Shell/Phibro
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov   500KB  OSP +15 c/b        Shell/Vitol
    KITAN        Nov   550KB  DTD +$1            Eni/Exxon
    BAYU UNDAN   Nov 2*650KB  DTD -$1-$2         Conoco/Unipec, SK
    
    Sept 25
    NWS COND     Nov   650KB  DTD flat to -$1    Mitsui/Petral
    OMAN         Nov  1000KB                     /TonenGeneral
    VITYAZ       Nov 4*730KB  Dubai +$6.5-$6.9   Sakhalin/
    
    Sept 24
    NWS COND     Nov   650KB  DTD flat to -$1    Woodside/Petral
    SENIPAH COND Nov          ICP more than +$3  Total/Exxon
    
    Sept 23
    MURBAN       Nov            OSP +90 c/b
    BASRA LT     Nov            OSP +30 c/b
    
    Sept 20
    KUTUBU       Nov  600KB  DTD more than +$3   Oil Search/Caltex Australia
    COSSACK      Nov  600KB                      Woodside/
    VAN GOGH     Nov  400KB  DTD more than $4    Inpex/Thailand
    
    Sept 18
    AL-SHAHEEN   Nov 2*600KB    Dubai +$4.2, +$3-$4 Maersk/
    
    Sept 13
    MURBAN       Nov            OSP +$1.7-$1.97        
    QATAR MARINE Nov            OSP +$1.2-$1.3
    BANOCO AM    Nov            OSP +40 c/b      Sinochem, Statoil/
    
    Sept 12
    MURBAN       Nov            OSP +$1.6        
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov            OSP +$1.6 
    
    Sept 11
    UPPER ZAKUM  Nov            OSP above +80 c/b 
    QATAR MARINE Nov            OSP above +80 c/b
    DFC          Nov            Dubai ard +$4.2  Vitol/
    
    Sept 10
    MURBAN       Nov            OSP +$1.2        Total/
    QATAR MARINE Nov            OSP above +50 c/b
    
    Sept 9
    MURBAN       Nov            OSP more than +$1 Exxon/
    QATAR MARINE Nov            OSP +40-50 c/b
    
    Aug 26
    BASRA        Oct    2000KB  OSP +30 c/b            /Reliance  
    
    Aug 23
    PENARA       Oct 250-300KB DTD just above +$6 Petronas/major
    
    Aug 22
    CENDOR       Oct          DTD ard +$10        Petronas/BP
    KIKEH        Oct          DTD above +$8       Murphy/major
    COSSACK      Oct   600KB  DTD +$1-$1.5        BHP/Caltex
    KUTUBU       Oct   600KB  DTD more than +$2   Exxon/BP
    
    Aug 21
    NWS COND     Oct   650KB  DTD -$3.5-$4       BHP/Samsung Total
    ENFIELD      Oct   550KB  DTD ard +$8        Woodside/PTT
    
    Aug 19
    UPPER ZAKUM  Oct          OSP +60-70 c/b
    
    Aug 16
    MURBAN       Oct          OSP +$1.20-$1.30
    VITYAZ       Oct 2*730KB  Dubai +$6.2-$6.3   Sakhalin/
    
    Aug 15
    MURBAN       Oct          OSP +$1.20
    LOWER ZAKUM  Oct          OSP above +$1
    UMM SHAIF    Oct          OSP above +$1
    QATAR MARINE Oct          OSP +50-60 c/b
    UPPER ZAKUM  Oct          OSP above +60 c/b
    AL-SHAHEEN   Oct          Dubai +$1.8-$1.9   Maersk/
    
    Aug 14
    NWS COND     Oct  2*650KB DTD -$3.5-$4       Woodside,Shell/Exxon
    NWS COND     Oct  650KB                      Chevron/Samsung Total
    MURBAN       Oct          OSP above +70 c/b
    QATAR MARINE Oct          OSP +45 c/b
    UPPER ZAKUM  Oct          OSP above +40 c/b
   
    Aug 13
    MURBAN       Oct          OSP above +60 c/b
    QATAR MARINE Oct          OSP above +20 c/b
    
    Aug 6
    ESPO         Sep  730KB   Dubai +$5.5        Lukoil/S. Korea
    
    July 30
    PYRENEES     Sep  550KB   DTD ard +$6        BHP/China
    
    July 29
    BUNGA KEKWA  Sep                             Petronas/Mercuria
    
    July 25
    PYRENEES     Sep  550KB   DTD ard +$6        BHP/China
    
    July 24
    TAPIS        Sep  300KB   DTD +$6.5-$7       Petronas/Malaysia
    
    July 23
    BASRA LT     Sep 2000KB    OSP +20-25 c/b    /Reliance
    
    July 19
    KUTUBU       Sep  600KB    DTD +$1.5-$2      Oil Search/Caltex
    
    July 18
    BAYU UNDAN   Sep  650KB                      Inpex/Shell
    
    July 17
    MURBAN       Sep           OSP above +60 c/b
    UMM SHAIF    Sep           OSP above +70 c/b
    LOWER ZAKUM  Sep           OSP above +70 c/b
    QATAR MARINE Sep           OSP +10-20 c/b
    BANOCO AM    Sep           OSP -10-13 c/b
    
    July 16
    QATAR MARINE Sep           OSP +20-30 c/b
    MURBAN       Sep           OSP above +40 c/b   
    
    July 13
    MURBAN       Sep           OSP +30-40 c/b   
    
    July 12
    SOKOL        Sep  700KB    Dubai +$7.2       SODECO/JX Nippon
    UPPER ZAKUM  Sep           OSP ard +10 c/b  
    
    July 11
    MURBAN       Sep            OSP +8-12 c/b    majors/North Asian refiners
    NWS COND     Sep  650KB     DTD -$4.5-$5     BHP/Samsung Total
    
    July 5
    NWS COND     Sep  650KB                      Chevron/Samsung Total
    
    July 4
    SENIPAH COND Jun          DTD parity C&F     Trafigura/Dragon Aromatics
    
    July 3
    PYRENEES     Aug  550KB   DTD below +$6      BHP/PTT
    
    July 2
    PENARA       Aug          DTD ard +$2.5      Petronas/Japan
    CENDOR       Aug          DTD +$6.5-$7       Petronas/major
    KIKEH        Aug  600KB   DTD +$6.2-$6.3     /Shell
    BUNGA ORKID  Aug  300KB   DTD +$4.5-$5       trader/Thailand
    TGT          Aug  310KB                      Kernel Oil/major
    
    June 27
    LABUAN       Aug  600KB   DTD ard +$6.5      Petronas/major
    BUNGA KEKWA  Aug  450KB                      Trafigura/BP
    
    June 26
    BASRAH LT    Aug          OSP small discount       /Reliance
    MURBAN       Aug          OSP -70 c/b              /Japanese, Korea
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB   DTD ard -$5.5      Shell/Samsung Total
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB   DTD ard -$5.5      BP/trader
    PLUTO+LAMINARIA Aug 600KB                    Woodside/China
    CENDOR       Aug                             Petronas/BP
    
    June 25
    BAYU UNDAN   Aug 2*650KB  DTD ard -$6        Conoco/Samsung Total, CPC
    COSSACK      Aug  600KB   DTD small premium  Mitsui/BP
    COSSACK      Aug  600KB                      Chevron/Australia
    KUTUBU       Aug 2*600KB  DTD premium        Oil Search/Caltex Australia
   
    June 24
    UMM SHAIF    Aug          OSP -40 c/b              /India
    LOWER ZAKUM  Aug          OSP -40 c/b              /India
    VITYAZ       Sep  730KB   Dubai below +$3.8  Sakhalin/China
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB   DTD -$5-$5.5       Mitsui/China
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB   DTD -$5-$5.5       Woodside/Exxon
    KIKEH        Aug  600KB   DTD +$6.2-$6.3     Petronas/BP
    TAPIS        Aug  300KB   DTD ard +$6        Petronas/Malaysia
    
    June 21
    MURBAN       Aug          OSP -30 c/b              /Thai 
          
    June 20
    QATAR MARINE Aug          OSP -5     c/b          /majors,
                                                      /Japanese, S Korea   
    QATAR MARINE Aug          OSP -10/20 c/b          /majors,
                                                      /Japanese, S Korea
    
    June 19
    KITAN        Aug  550KB   DTD -$4-$5         Inpex/
        
    June 18
    VAN GOGH     July 400KB                      Inpex/India
    
    June 17
    AL-SHAHEEN   Aug          Dubai +$1.5        Maersk/TonenGeneral
    AL-SHAHEEN   Aug          Dubai +$1.5        Maersk/Chevron
    
    June 14
    NWS COND     Aug  650KB   DTD -$5.5-$6       BHP/Petrobras
    
    May 30
    MURBAN       July         OSP ard -80 c/b    /Mitsui
    KIKEH        July 600KB   DTD +$6-$6.5       Petronas/major
    KIKEH        July 600KB   DTD +$6-$6.5       /Shell
    LABUAN       July         DTD ard +$6.5      /BP
    BACH HO      June                            Vitol/Petrobras
    
    May 21
    KITAN        July 550KB   DTD -$4.5-$5       Eni/SK Energy
    STYBARROW    July 500KB   DTD ard +$8.5      BHP/China
    
    May 20
    QATAR MARINE July           OSP - 30 c/b            /Japanese
    LABUAN       July 300KB   DTD just below $7  Petronas/Mercuria
    VITYAZ       July 3*730KB Dubai ard +$4.5    Sakhalin/N. Asia
    
    May 17
    NWS COND     July  650KB   DTD -$6.2-6.4     Chevron/Samsung Total
    BAYU UNDAN   July 2*650KB  DTD ard -$7       Conoco/Petrobras, Exxon
    
    May 16
    NWS COND     July  650KB   DTD -$6.2-6.4     BHP/
    AL-SHAHEEN   July          Dubai + $1.4-1.5  Maersk/TonenGeneral
    
    May 15
    PYRENEES     July  550KB  DTD ard +$7.10     Apache/Chinaoil
    
    May 14
    PYRENEES     July  550KB  DTD just above +$7 BHP/Phillips66
    KITAN        June  550KB  DTD -$5-$6         Eni/SK Energy
    
    May 6
    COSSACK      June  600KB    parity to DTD    BP/Interoil
    KIKEH        June 2*600KB small premium to OSP Murphy/Chevron, Phillips66
    KIKEH        June  600KB    DTD +$7-$7.5     Petronas/Petrobras
    TAPIS        June 1-2*300KB DTD +$5.5-$6     Petronas/
    LABUAN       June           DTD +$6.5-$7     Petronas/
    
    April 26
    BAYU UNDAN   June   650KB   DTD -$6.5-$6.9   Conoco/
    
    April 25
    NWS COND     June  650KB   DTD -$6-$6.3      Chevron/
    NWS COND     June  650KB   DTD -$6.5         BHP/
    
    April 19
    VITYAZ       July 3*730KB Dubai ard +$4.7  Sakhalin/China, S. Korea
    
    April 18
    MURBAN       Jun   500KB  OSP -41-42 c/b     major/Mitsui
    BANOCO AM    Jun          OSP -30 c/b        
    
    April 17
    PYRENEES     Jun   550KB  DTD just above +$6.5 BHP/Chinaoil
    QATAR MARINE Jun          OSP - 30 c/b            /Majors, Japanese
    
    April 16
    MURBAN       Jun          OSP-10-30 c/b        Exxon/Japanese, Thai
    UPPER ZAKUM  Jun          Around OSP
    
    April 15
    AL-SHAHEEN  Jun    600KB  Dubai + $1.5         Maersk/PTT
    AL-SHAHEEN  Jun    600KB  Dubai + $1.4         Maersk/Chevron
    
    April 12
    ESPO         May   730KB  Dubai ard +$2.5    PDS/Chevron
    ESPO         May   730KB  Dubai +$2.5-$2.9   Brightoil/
    
    April 5
    SOKOL        June 700KB  Dubai ard +$8       SODECO/Chinaoil
    
    April 2
    KIKEH        MAY  600KB                      Petronas/Arcadia
    TGT          MAY                             Vitol/Shell
    
    March 25
    KIKEH        MAY  2*600KB  DTD +$7.5-$8      Murphy/Shell, Phillips66
    
    March 22
    VITYAZ       JUN 2*730KB   Dubai ard +$5.5   Sakhalin/China
    
    March 21
    NWS COND     MAY   650KB   DTD ard -$4.5     Shell/
    SENIPAH COND MAY   200KB   ICP +$1.5-$2      Total/Exxon
    VAN GOGH     MAY   400KB                     Inpex/China
    
    March 19
    MURBAN       MAY          OSP + 6-8 c/b
    QATAR MARINE MAY          OSP - 20-40 c/b          /Japanese
    LOWER ZAKUM  MAY          OSP + 5-9 c/b      
    STYBARROW    MAY   550KB  DTD +$7-$8.2       Woodside/Chinaoil
    
    March 18
    PYRENEES     MAY   550KB  DTD ard +$7        BHP/Chinaoil
    
    March 14
    AL-SHAHEEN   MAY          Dubai+$1.5-$1.6    Maersk/
    AL-SHAHEEN   MAY 2*600KB  Dubai+$1.5-$1.6    Marubeni/
    NWS COND     MAY   650KB   DTD -$4.5-$5      Chevron/Samsung
    
    March 13
    PLUTO/LAMINARIA MAY 950KB  DTD -$3.55-$4     Woodside/
    BAYU UNDAN   APR                             Petronas/
    
    March 12
    VAN GOGH     APR   400KB                     Glencore/N. Asia
    
    Mar 7
    VITYAZ       MAY  4*730KB  Dubai ard +$5.85 Sakhalin/China,S. Korea,Gazprom
    PYRENEES     APR   550KB   DTD +$6.5-$7      BHP/Chinaoil
    PYRENEES     APR   550KB   DTD +$6.5-$7      Apache/Unipec
    ENFIELD      MAR   550KB   DTD +$7.9         Woodside/
    KITAN        APR   550KB                     Eni/Arcadia
    BAYU UNDAN   APR   650KB   DTD ard -$5       Conoco/Petronas
       
    Feb 21
    MURBAN       APR           OSP+ 8-9 c/b      Total/Thai
    KIKEH        APR  2*600KB  DTD +$7.5-$8      Murphy/Shell, Concord
    NWS COND     APR   650KB   DTD ard -$4.3     BHP/
    NWS COND     APR   650KB   DTD -$4-$4.5      Mitsui/SK Energy
    
    Feb 20
    VAN GOGH     APR   400KB   DTD ard +$4       Inpex/Glencore
    SENIPAH COND APR   250KB   ICP ard +$3       Total/SK Energy
    MURBAN       APR           OSP -10 c/b
    QATAR MARINE APR           OSP - 50-60 c/b   Occidental/major       
    
    Feb 19
    UPPER ZAKUM  APR           OSP - 50 c/b     METS/Japanese refiner
    
    Feb 18
    NWS COND     APR   650KB   DTD -$4-$4.5      Woodside/Samsung Total
    
    Feb 14
    AL-SHAHEEN   APR  2*600KB Dubai + $1.1-$1.2  Marubeni/        
    AL-SHAHEEN   APR  2*600KB Dubai + $1.1-$1.2  Maersk/Exxon, Japanese
    
    Jan 31
    LABUAN       Mar  600KB   DTD +$7-$7.5       Brightoil/major
    STYBARROW    Mar  550KB   DTD +$7.5          BHP/BP
    
    Jan 29
    BASRA LT     Mar          OSP + small premium Japan/
    RANG DONG    Mar  200KB   DTD near +$5       Petrosummit/Japan
    
    Jan 28
    BASRA LT     Mar          OSP + 8 c/b           /Reliance 
    QATAR MARINE Mar          OSP - 70-75 c/b    Mitsui/
    BUNGA KEKWA  Mar  400KB   DTD +$5.5-$6       Petronas/Thailand
    TAPIS        Mar  300KB   DTD ard +$5.5      Petronas/Petrobras
    
    Jan 23
    LABUAN       Mar  600KB   DTD +$7-$7.9       Petronas/major
    CENDOR       Mar  250KB   DTD +$7.5-$8       Petronas/
    
    Jan 22
    UPPER ZAKUM  Mar          OSP - 40 c/b       Japan/
    LOWER ZAKUM  Mar          OSP -25-30 c/b           /SPC
    BAYU UNDAN   Mar 2*650KB  DTD ard -$5        Conoco/Petrobras,NA
    KUTUBU       Mar  300KB   DTD +$1-$1.2       Exxon/
    
    Jan 21
    MURBAN       Mar          OSP - 25 c/b       Majors/Japanese
    BANOCO AM    Mar          OSP + 5-15         Statoil, Chinese/Japan
    KIKEH        Mar 4*600KB  DTD +$7-$7.5       Murphy,Petronas/majors
    TAPIS        Mar  300KB   DTD ard +$5        Petronas/ 
    NWSC         Mar  650KB   DTD -$4-$4.3       Woodside/IRPC
    
    Jan 18
    MURBAN       Mar          OSP - 35 c/b       Chinese/Thai
    OMAN         Mar          Dubai + $1.10             /Japanese
    NWS COND     Mar   650KB  DTD -$4-$4.3       Chevron/Samsung
    
    Jan 17
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB   DTD -$4-$4.3       Woodside/Shell
    
    Jan 16
    AL-SHAHEEN   Mar          Dubai + $1.5-1.7   Maersk/
    UPPER ZAKUM  Mar          OSP - 30 c/b       Mercuria/Chinese 
    NWS COND     Mar   650KB  DTD -$4-$4.3       BHP/CNOOC
    
    Jan 9        
    CENDOR       Feb   300KB  DTD near +$7       Petronas/major
    TAPIS        Feb   300KB  DTD +$4.5-$5       Petronas/major
    MINAS        Feb          ICP ard +$5        Itochu/Japan
    DURI         Feb   300KB  ICP +$3.5-$4       Chevron/PDS
    
    Jan 7
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB    DTD ard -$4       BP/Exxon
    VAN GOGH     Feb  400KB    DTD ard +$4       Apache/Unipec
    
    Jan 4
    NWS COND     Feb  650KB    DTD ard -$4       Petronas/Samsung
    
 (Asia Energy Desk)
Released: 2014-10-27T11:45:46.000Z
Document LBA0000020141021eaal008xo
 Samsung scales down LED lighting as outlook dims
Reuters, 05:25, 27 October 2014, 306 words, Se Young Lee, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) said on Monday that it will cease its light emitting diode (LED) lighting business outside of South Korea, scaling back what was identified as a key growth business four years ago.
Document WCLBA00020141027eaar0038q
 Samsung Electronics scales back LED lighting business
Reuters, 02:53, 27 October 2014, 206 words, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korean tech giant Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) said on Monday it was discontinuing its light emitting diodes lamp business in all markets except South Korea.
Document WCLBA00020141027eaar002gx
Samsung Elec says scaling down LED lighting business
98 words
27 October 2014
01:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 27 (Reuters) - South Korean tech giant Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said on Monday it was discontinuing its light emitting diodes lamp business in all markets except South Korea.
Samsung Group had identified the LED market as a new growth business back in 2010 after Lee Kun-hee, patriarch of the owner Lee family, returned as the chairman of Samsung Electronics.
Samsung Electronics is the flagship affiliate of South Korea's biggest conglomerate.
(Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) 
Released: 2014-10-27T07:08:46.000Z
Document LBA0000020141027eaar004ih
 Koreans Snap Up iPhones in Presales
WSJ Blogs, 00:52, 27 October 2014, 452 words, By Min-Jeong Lee, (English)
Is Apple Inc.¡¦s smartphone market share set to increase in Samsungland? Presales figures for the U.S. company¡¦s latest, large-screen models in South Korea suggest so.
Document WCWSJB0020141027eaar000rt
S.Korea stocks, won boosted by positive earnings and econ data
384 words
26 October 2014
21:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 27 (Reuters) - South Korean shares and the won
 were buoyed by returning risk appetite on positive
earnings results and economic data that soothed concerns over
the health of the global economy.
    The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) was up
0.3 percent at 1,932.03 points as of 0200 GMT while the local
currency was up half a percent at 1,052.1 against the
dollar.
    "The KOSPI is likely to try to firmly rebound this week as
sentiment is expected to keep improving. Whether it will be able
to move safely above the 1,940 level will be closely watched,"
said Lee Kyung-min, an analyst at Daishin Securities.
    U.S. data released late on Friday showed sales of new U.S.
homes rose to a six-year high in September while third-quarter
GDP growth in Britain remained above the country's long-run
average and on track to outpace other advanced economies this
year.  
    Investors also took heart in positive earnings results from
blue chips Microsoft and Proctor & Gamble, which
propped up U.S. stocks to close out their best week in nearly
two years on Friday.
    Market participants will now look towards Wednesday, when
the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting this week ends and
where it is likely to announce the end of its bond-buying
programme.
    Shares of Samsung Heavy and Samsung Engineering
 both gained more than 3 percent after it was
announced shareholders approved the merger of the two companies.
 
    Foreign investors purchased a net 26.7 billion Korean
won($25.38 million) worth of KOSPI shares near mid-session,
propping up the index.
    The KOSPI 200 benchmark of core stocks was up 0.4 
percent, while the junior KOSDAQ was nearly flat up 0.1
percent.
    December futures on three-year treasury bonds ticked
down 0.01 points to trade at 107.89. 
    
                       0200 GMT    Prev close
 Dollar/won             1,052.1       1,057.5
 Yen/won             9.7398/444        9.7670
 *KTB futures            107.89        107.90
 KOSPI                 1,932.03      1,925.69
 * Front-month futures on three-year treasury bonds
 (Reporting by Christine Kim; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)
Released: 2014-10-27T03:24:00.000Z
Document LBA0000020141027eaar00196
Shareholders approve Samsung Heavy & Samsung Engineering merger
46 words
26 October 2014
20:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 27 (Reuters) - The merger of Samsung Heavy Industries and Samsung Engineering was approved by shareholders of both companies, a Samsung Heavy spokesman and Samsung Engineering spokeswoman said on Monday.               
Released: 2014-10-27T02:00:27.000Z
Document LBA0000020141027eaar0003u
 Shareholders approve Samsung Heavy & Samsung Engineering merger
Reuters, 20:01, 26 October 2014, 178 words, Sun Oct, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - The merger of Samsung Heavy Industries (010140.KS) and Samsung Engineering (028050.KS) was approved by shareholders of both companies, a Samsung Heavy spokesman and Samsung Engineering spokeswoman said on Monday.
Document WCLBA00020141027eaar000gq
Corrections & Amplifications
Corrections & Amplifications
325 words
25 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
About two-thirds of air-bag deaths in the 1990s were attributable to children riding in the front seat, a report by the chief U.S. auto-safety regulator said. A Page One article on Thursday about government scrutiny of U.S. air-bag recalls incorrectly said it was more than 90%.
(See: "Air Bag Safety Measures Probed" -- WSJ October 25, 2014)
---
Labels were reversed in some editions on a chart with an article on Friday about the narrowing gender gap aiding Republicans. In a WSJ/NBC News poll on congressional preference among likely voters, 49% preferred the Republican candidate in September versus 46% in October. Among men, the figures were 56% in September versus 52% in October; among women, the figures were 50% versus 51% for Democratic candidates and 42% versus 41% for Republican candidates. The labels for September and October were reversed in each case.
---
At the end of the 19th century, industrialized countries began flash-heating milk to remove dangerous bacteria, in a process known as pasteurization. A Page One article on Tuesday about a crackdown on raw-milk vending machines in Europe incorrectly said pasteurization was used on milk since its discovery in 1864.
(See: "Lactose Intolerance: Crackdown On Raw-Milk Machines Steams Fans --- In Europe, Restrictions on Dispensers Have Farmers Frothing; Models That Moo" -- WSJ October 21, 2014)
---
Microsoft Corp. made less than a year earlier from its mobile-phone operating software business, as Android-phone makers like Samsung Electronics sold more of their inexpensive phones, meaning lower fees for Microsoft. In some editions Friday, a Marketplace article on Microsoft's results incorrectly said its drop in mobile-software revenue was because of a shift to lower-cost Windows smartphones.
---
Readers can alert The Wall Street Journal to any errors in news articles by e-mailing wsjcontact@wsj.com or by calling 888-410-2667.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141025eaap0002n
 South Korea fund to abstain from Samsung merger vote, wants share buybacks
Reuters, 00:39, 25 October 2014, 424 words, Joyce Lee, (English)
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's National Pension Service does not support the merger of two Samsung Group units and plans to ask them to buy back its holdings in the pair, an NPS spokeswoman said on Saturday.
Document WCLBA00020141025eaap000xe
BUZZ-U.S. Stocks on the Move-Brazilian cos, SodaStream, GoPro, Maxwell
3,029 words
24 October 2014
13:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(For faster updates on individual market-movers, Eikon users please use search string "STXBZ US"; for the Day Ahead newsletter, http://link.reuters.com/mex49s; for the Morning News Call newsletter, http://link.reuters.com/nex49s)
U.S. stocks advanced on Friday, as earnings from Microsoft and Procter & Gamble and easing concerns over the possible spread of Ebola in the United States helped put the S&P on track to snap a four-week losing skid. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 0.60 percent at 16,777.89, the S&P 500 was up 0.49 percent at 1,960.32 and the Nasdaq Composite was up 21.88 points, or 0.49 percent, to 4,474.67.
** MICROSOFT CORP, $45.95, +2.07 pct
At least three brokerages raised their price targets on the world's largest software company's shares by $5-$55. The stock - up 20 percent this year to Thursday's close - has a median price target of $50. "(CEO Satya) Nadella is helping shift Microsoft's strategy toward the cloud, mobile, and subscription services, and while this transition will be not be an overnight success, we saw further signs of success in the September quarter, which is key for investors digesting results this morning," FBR Capital Markets analysts said. The company reported higher-than-expected first quarter revenue, helped by stronger sales of its phones, Surface tablets and cloud-computing products for companies.
** PROCTER & GAMBLE CO, $85.54, +2.78 pct
The consumer goods giant on Friday said it would sell its Duracell battery business, probably through a split-off into a separate company, as it looks to focus on faster-growing brands.
The company, which earlier this month completed a management reshuffle as part of plans to revive sagging sales growth and win back market share, said it forecast a stronger dollar this quarter.
For a graphic on Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive and Kimberly Clark, click (http://link.reuters.com/syh33w)
The stock was the biggest pull on the S&P 500.
** AMAZON.COM INC, $287.275, -8.27 pct
At least 20 brokerages cut their price targets on the e-commerce giant's stock, while Cowen and Co downgraded it to "market perform" from "outperform".
"If the stock continues to get hit, we could even end up in a situation with activists calling for significant changes at Amazon," Macquarie Equities Research analysts wrote in a note.
Up to Thursday's close, the stock had fallen about 21 percent this year.
Third quarter profit and revenue, as well as net sales forecast for the fourth quarter - the crucial holiday season - missed average analyst estimates.
Amazon's shares were the top percentage loser on the S&P 500, and was the biggest drag on the index.
** FORD MOTOR CO, $13.8, -4.17 pct
The U.S. automaker's on Friday reported a 34 percent drop in third-quarter profit, and revenue fell due to the cost of introducing the F-150 pickup truck.
Ford said earnings were also hit by lower wholesale vehicle volumes and recall costs, as well as supplier parts shortages.
"No compelling new reason to either buy or sell the stock," Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas wrote in his note to clients.
For a graphic on Ford's earnings, click (http://link.reuters.com/bej33w)
** PFIZER INC, $29.225, +2.19 pct
The U.S. drugmaker is to continue buying back stock, with the board authorizing a new $11 billion share repurchase plan, deflating expectations that it will make a new bid for AstraZeneca Plc.
Separately, a U.S. district court ruled in favor of the company in a patent lawsuit it filed against Mylan Inc, alleging patent infringement on its cancer drug, Sutent, Pfizer said on Thursday.
** SODASTREAM INTERNATIONAL LTD, $25.05, +18.22 pct
The soda machine maker said it would sell some of PepsiCo Inc's brands through its soda machines on a test basis later this year.
** NPS PHARMACEUTICALS INC, $27.645, -4.93 pct
U.S. FDA on Thursday extends review date for the drugmaker's hormone replacement therapy to Jan. 24 to provide time for a full review of a "major amendment".
The FDA also asked the company to submit a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy for the drug, Natpara, designed to treat a rare condition called hypoparathyroidism. Wedbush analysts cut their price target on the stock to $42 from $44.
** PETROLEO BRASILEIRO PETROBRAS SA, $12.96, +7.02 pct
** GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA, $4.69, +6.35 pct
** BANCO BRADESCO SA, $13.98, +5.59 pct
** ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA, $13.63, +5.17 pct
Brazilian companies' U.S.-listed shares rose on the last trading day before Sunday's tightly contested presidential election between incumbent Dina Rousseff and pro-business rival Aecio Neves.
Brazil's benchmark Bovespa stock index was up about 3.5 pct at 11:15 am ET.
Brazil's FDI was $4.21 billion in September, ahead of market expectations of $3.45 billion, according to data published on Friday.
** DIGITAL RIVER INC, $25.56, +47.07 pct
The e-commerce services provider said late on Thursday that it will be bought by an investor group led by Siris Capital Group LLC for about $840 million.
The deal, valued at $26 per share in cash, is at a premium of almost 50 percent to Digital River's Thursday's closing price.
Robert W. Baird & Co raised its price target on the stock to $26 from $18, to reflect the purchase price.
** CHICAGO BRIDGE & IRON CO NV, $53.165, +3.68 pct
The energy infrastructure provider's third quarter profit beat the average analyst estimate and the company said it received new contracts worth $3 billion.
** SANDRIDGE ENERGY INC, $3.92, -3.92 pct
The oil and gas company said its subsidiary MidCon Midstream LP has filed for initial public offering of common units. The company said the number of units and price range for IPO has not been determined. MidCon plans to apply for a listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
** EDWARD LIFESCIENCES CORP, $116.61, +10.86 pct
The medical device maker's stock is among the top three percentage gainer on the New York Stock Exchange. At least 10 brokerages raised their price targets on the stock by as much as $32, to as high as $132. The company raised its full-year profit forecast.
** CALLAWAY GOLF CO, $7.84, +9.65 pct
The golf equipment maker raised its full-year earnings forecast to 15-18 cents per share from 12-16 cents per share, and reported better-than-expected third quarter sales on higher demand.
The stock was one of the top percentage gainers on NYSE.
** RESMED INC, $52.52, +10.10 pct
At least two brokerages raised their price target on the medical device maker's stock after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly revenue.
Canaccord Genuity raised price target to $42 from $39 while Jefferies raised it to $45 from $42. William Blair & Co upgraded its rating on the stock to "outperform".
** CLEAN ENERGY FUELS CORP, $6.52, -2.40 pct
The provider of natural gas as an alternative fuel for vehicles in U.S. and Canada, on Thursday reported a bigger quarterly loss due to higher sales cost and operating expenses.
Jefferies & Co cut its price target on the stock to $7.50 from $9.50. The stock has a median price target of $11.50.
** STATE STREET CORP, $71.73, +4.05 pct
The custodial bank's third quarter operating earnings rose to $1.35 per share from $1.19 per share a year earlier on growth in asset servicing and asset management fees.
** MAXWELL TECHNOLOGIES INC $10.57, +6.98 pct
Canacord Genuity and Cowen & Co raised their price targets on the energy storage company's stock after the company posted a smaller-than expected third quarter loss and forecast sequential revenue growth of 20-25 percent for the current quarter.
** GOPRO INC, $71.524, -9.63 pct
Oppenheimer & Co started coverage on the wearable camera maker's stock with an "underperform" rating and a price target of $45. The stock has a median price target of $90. "As the company moves toward a broader market, it will have to compete with the smartphone," Oppenheimer analysts wrote in a note.
** PACIFIC BIOSCIENCES OF CALIFORNIA INC, $71.524, -9.63 pct
The gene sequencing company reported a narrower-than-expected quarterly loss helped by higher sales of its gene sequencing systems.
Total revenue rose nearly three-fold to $20.6 million and included a $10 million milestone payment from Roche Holding AG .
** LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT, $33, +5.26 pct
E-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd is looking to snap up a 37.4 percent stake in the movie studio, a New York Post article said without citing its source (http://bit.ly/1uPd6fN)
Alibaba has been looking to expand its entertainment content offering on its internet television set-top boxes through deals with studios in the United States, Bloomberg reported on Oct. 22 (http://bloom.bg/ZHq6LF)
Alibaba and Lions Gate signed a deal in July to launch a subscription streaming service in China. (http://reut.rs/1tdd06f)
** MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS INC, $28.76, +3.98 pct
Deutsche Bank upgraded the chipmaker's stock to "buy," saying Samsung concentration risk has been significantly reduced, according to theflyonthewall.com. (http://bit.ly/1rt2Qb8)
The company forecast second quarter profit and revenue below analysts' estimates and reported lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue on Thursday.
As many as seven brokerages cut their price targets on the stock to a range of $26 to $34. The stock has a median price target of $32.
** FIRST NIAGARA FINANCIAL GROUP INC, $7.46, -11.61 pct
The lender reported third-quarter loss of $664.8 million, or $1.90 per share, compared with profit of $71.6 million, or 20 cents per share.
The company established $45 million reserve for possible remediation of an issue related to certain customer deposit accounts, and conducted an internal review.
It recorded non-cash pretax goodwill impairment charge of $800 million during the third quarter. Noninterest income fell 18 percent.
** RUBICON PROJECT INC, $10.7, +5.00 pct
The online advertising service provider reported better-than-expected third quarter profit and revenue and forecast a higher-than-expected full-year revenue.
** ALTERA CORP, $32.88, -2.55 pct
At least four brokerages cut their price targets on the chipmaker's stock by as much as $3 to as low as $33. The stock has a median price target of $37.50.
Altera said on Thursday that it expected fourth quarter revenue to fall 2-6 percent from fourth quarter.
** ALCOBRA LTD, $3.63, -13.57 pct
The drug developer's stock was one of the top percentage losers on the Nasdaq. FBR Capital Markets downgraded the stock to "market perform " from "outperform" and slashed price target to $4 from $22.
The company said on Thursday its experimental drug for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder showed no significant difference in blood pressure, pulse, heart rate compared to placebo in a late-stage trial.
** LAYNE CHRISTENSEN CO, $6.2, -24.02 pct
The construction and drilling company estimated third quarter revenue below analysts' expectations on Thursday, as unprofitable legacy contracts and higher costs hurt its heavy civil business.
D.A. Davidson cut its price target to $8 from $10 on the stock that was the top percentage loser on the Nasdaq.
** DRYSHIPS INC, $1.545, -22.75 pct
The drybulk shipping company priced its offering of 250 million shares at $1.40 per share, below the stock's Thursday close of $2. The company said it would use the proceeds to repay part of its $700 million debt.
Dryship shares were the most traded on the Nasdaq.
** GRUBHUB INC, $36.33, -2.31 pct
Brokerages revised price targets and shareholders sold shares after the company reported third quarter results.
Sources said 3 million shares were sold at $36.75 - a 1.1 percent discount to Thursday's $37.19 closing price - by an unidentified seller. The company had reported a more than five-fold jump in quarterly profit as more consumers used its online service to order meals.
Goldman Sachs analyst Heath Terry said the company was well positioned to take share of the $77 billion takeout and delivery market in the United States, but cut his target to $42 from $44, "to reflect multiple compression across the sector."
** CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC, $14.19, +3.13 pct
The banana producer said it would start takeover talks with Brazil's Grupo Cutrale and Safra Group after its shareholders voted against its proposed merger with Irish rival Fyffes Plc .
** DECKERS OUTDOOR CORP, $82.43, -6.44 pct
The outdoor footwear and apparel retailer forecast on Thursday third quarter revenue growth and profit below analysts' estimates.
** AGRIUM INC, $92.79, +7.42 pct
Activist hedge fund ValueAct Capital disclosed a 5.7 percent stake in the Canadian fertilizer producer, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
** SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY CO, $31.83, -4.27 pct
The oil and gas producer on Thursday reported an adjusted profit below Wall Street expectations, hurt by lower natural gas prices and higher costs.
** FLOWSERVE CORP, $64.64, -2.59 pct
The company, which makes valves and pumps for the oil and gas industry, reported a lower-than-expected quarterly profit, hurt by delays in projects and deferred product inspection.
At least two brokerages cut their price targets on the stock by as much as $7 to $78. The stock has a median price target of $80.
** HUB GROUP INC, $34.025, -12.78 pct
The freight management company's stock was among the top percentage losers on the Nasdaq after the company's third quarter profit missed the average analyst estimate, hurt by lower intermodal revenue and higher costs.
KeyBanc cut its price target on the stock to $45 while BMO Capital Markets and Macquarie cut their price targets to $38. The stock has a median price target of $45, down $3.5 in the past 30 days.
** GIGAMON INC, $13.65, +17.77 pct
Goldman Sachs raises its target price on the stock to $14.50 from $13 while D.A. Davidson raised it to $14. The stock has a median price target of $15.50, up $2 in the past 30 days.
The network traffic management software maker reported better-than-expected third quarter revenue.
The stock was the biggest percentage gainer on the New York Stock Exchange.
** PANDORA MEDIA INC, $19.96, -13.67 pct
At least eight brokerages cut their price targets by as much as $7 to as low as $26 on the operator of the leading Internet radio service's stock, which has a median price target of $32.
The company had reported a lower-than-expected increase in listeners in the third quarter.
The stock was the top percentage loser on the New York Stock Exchange.
** BJ'S RESTAURANTS INC, $41.502, +25.01 pct
At least six brokerages, including Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, raised their price targets on the restaurant chain operator's stock.
The casual dining restaurant operator on Thursday said third quarter comparable restaurant sales grew 0.3 percent - the first increase after falling four quarters. Sales were driven by a 0.7 percent increase in guest traffic, which more than offset a lower average check.
The stock was the third-biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq.
** LEAR CORP, $89.81, +4.97 pct
The maker of auto seats and electrical power systems reported a better-than-expected rise in quarterly profit and raised its 2014 earnings forecast, reflecting robust vehicle production in North America and Europe.
** KLA-TENCOR CORP, $75.87, +6.86 pct
At least four brokerages raise their price targets on the chip and wafer maker's stock after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly revenue and increased its share repurchase program.
The stock was the second-biggest percentage gainer on the S&P 500.
** VITAE PHARMACEUTICALS INC, $9.76, +12.83 pct
The biotechnology company said on Thursday its experimental drug to treat Alzheimer's disease was found safe and well-tolerated across all dose levels tested in early-stage trials.
The stock was the second-biggest percentage gainer on the Nasdaq.
** QIWI PLC, $27.05, -10.70 pct
Goldman Sachs cut its rating on the payment processor's stock to "sell" from "buy", citing revenue growth and compliance risk. "We see risks to growth in the financial services, e-commerce and money remittance businesses," Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note.
** EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORP, $116.61, +10.86 pct
The medical device maker said its quarterly net earnings rose 23 percent on strong sales of heart valves, prompting the company to raise its full year earnings forecast.
The stock was the top percentage gainer on the S&P 500.
** JUNIPER NETWORKS INC, $19.125, -5.88 pct
At least 12 brokerages cut their price targets on the network gear maker's stock. The company forecast weaker-than-expected profit and revenue for the current quarter as telecom operators, its main customers, postpone spending until the dust settles on several big mergers.
The stock was the second-biggest percentage loser on the S&P 500.
"We assume the carrier spending will remain constrained for several quarters...," Chief Executive Shaygan Kheradpir said on a post-earnings call.
** SYNAPTICS INC, $61.46, -16.12 pct
The touchscreen chip maker reported lower-than-expected first quarter revenue and adjusted profit, hurt by weak demand from smartphone makers, sending its shares down 8.5 percent in extended trading. (Compiled by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das)
Released: 2014-10-27T18:28:04.000Z
Document LBA0000020141024eaao00jwp
BUZZ-Maxim Integrated Products Inc: Deutsche Bank upgrades stock
117 words
24 October 2014
11:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
** Chipmaker's shares up 5.7 pct at $29.26
** Deutsche Bank upgraded Maxim Integrated to "buy," saying Samsung concentration risk has been significantly reduced, according to theflyonthewall.com (http://bit.ly/1rt2Qb8)
** Company forecasts Q2 profit and revenue below analysts' estimates and reported lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue on Thursday
** As many as seven brokerages cut their price targets on the stock to a range of $26 to $34; stock has a median price target of $32 - Thomson Reuters
** Up to Thursday's close, stock had lost 22 pct since June 9 when it hit an eight-year high
Released: 2014-10-27T16:38:34.000Z
Document LBA0000020141024eaao00him
CORRECTED-UPDATE 1-Synaptics hit by weak demand for touchscreen chips for smartphones (Oct 23)
431 words
24 October 2014
11:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(In Oct. 23 story, corrects to change references to IC (interface controller) from fingerprint touch ID. Removes background paragraph on touch ID)
By Lehar Maan
Oct 23 (Reuters) - Touchscreen chip maker Synaptics Inc reported lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue and profit, hurt by weak demand from smartphone makers, sending its shares down 13 percent in extended trading.
The company, whose chips are used in Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's devices such as Galaxy S5 smartphones and Galaxy Note 3 phablets, also forecast current quarter revenue largely below Wall Street's expectation.
"We think its weakness is likely in touch IC (interface controller) revenue," Feltl & Company analyst Jeffrey Schreiner said.
"Given that certain Samsung designs that have come out recently (Note 4, Galaxy Alpha, Note Edge) are not using Synaptics touch IC products, we think that would probably be a real driver of the revenue decline."
The company competes with STMicroelectronics NC, Atmel Corp and Cypress Semiconductor Corp to get its touchscreen products in smartphones.
Synaptics did not say how much IC products contributed to sales in the quarter ended Sept. 30. But it said those sales were classified according to the technology's use in either a mobile phone or a personal computer.
Revenue from its PC business rose 38 percent, powering most of the 27 percent rise in total sales. Revenue from its mobile phone business rose 23 percent, accounting for 71 percent of total sales of $282.7 million.
Still, total sales fell short of the average analyst estimate of $288.4 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The company's net income fell about 24 percent. On an adjusted basis, it earned $1.04 per share. Analysts had expected a profit of $1.19 per share.
"Our performance in the first quarter reflected weaker than expected customer demand trends in the mobile market, offset by greater than anticipated demand in the PC market," Chief Executive Rick Bergman said in a earnings statement.
Synaptics forecast current-quarter revenue of $415-$450 million. The mid-point of the forecast is $432.5 million, which is less than the $444.8 million Wall Street has estimated.
The stock was down 12.6 percent at $64.05 in extended trading. Up to Thursday's close Synaptics' stock has gained 41.4 percent this year, more than double the 13.2 percent rise in the Philadelphia semiconductor index. (Editing by Maju Samuel and Savio D'Souza)
Released: 2014-10-27T16:28:54.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan00om5
Apple's CEO Unveils Plans To Expand Inside China
By Gillian Wong   
397 words
24 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
20
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Corrections & Amplifications
Apple Inc. Chief Executive Tim Cook told a Chinese media outlet that the company's four Beijing retail stores serve about 250,000 customers a week. A Business & Finance article in the Friday-Sunday edition about Apple's plans in China incorrectly stated that Mr. Cook said it serves 750,000 customers a day in 15 Apple-branded stores across China.
(WSJA Oct. 27, 2014)
(END)
BEIJING -- Apple Inc. plans to increase the number of its Apple-brand retail stores in Greater China to 40 from 15 within two years, Chief Executive Tim Cook said Thursday.
In an interview with Chinese news portal Sina.com, Mr. Cook said the Cupertino, Calif., company will also increase investment in China by an unspecified amount. "In the future, China will become Apple's biggest revenue contributor," he said, according to Sina.com. "It's just a matter of time."
An Apple spokeswoman confirmed the remarks. Greater China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan.
China is Apple's third-largest market after the U.S. and Europe and is an important growth driver for the company. Its revenue growth in Greater China, however, slowed sharply in the latest quarter ahead of the release of its new iPhone, which was delayed by regulators in China until this month.
Mr. Cook's trip is being portrayed by some Chinese media outlets as part of the company's attempt to assuage concerns the Chinese government or public might have about the security of data stored on its phones. In July, state broadcaster China Central Television called a location-tracking function on the iPhone a "national security concern." Apple has said it doesn't keep user data.
The official Xinhua News Agency said Mr. Cook and China's Vice Premier Ma Kai "exchanged views on protection of users' information" when they met on Wednesday.
Apple faces competition in China from South Korean company Samsung Electronics Co. as well as Chinese manufacturers. Apple ranked No. 6 in China's smartphone market in the second quarter, according to research firm IDC.
Mr. Cook said Apple has 7,000 employees in China serving 750,000 customers daily in 15 Apple-branded stores. "You could say they're the world's busiest retail stores," he said.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141023eaao0000v
Uncool Microsoft Grows Hot Again
By Shira Ovide   
727 words
24 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
Microsoft Corp. may not be cool, but its sales continue to defy expectations by growing at a much faster clip than those of its business-technology peers.
Microsoft's revenue rose 11% from a year earlier in the three months ended Sept. 30, excluding Nokia's mobile-phone business that Microsoft purchased last spring.
Meanwhile, competitors in corporate technology -- such as International Business Machines Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Oracle Corp. -- posted shrinking or slow sales growth.
"Microsoft is bucking the trend," said Daniel Ives, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets.
Microsoft's stock rose 3.1% in after-hours trading Thursday following the release of its financial report for the fiscal first quarter. The company's stock price has reflected strong revenue and profit growth in the past year.
Shares climbed 33% in the past year through Thursday's market close, far outpacing the S&P 500 stock index over the period.
The company's market value recently surpassed that of Google Inc. for the first time since June 2013.
The latest quarterly results continue a charmed first year in office for Satya Nadella, who in February was named chief executive, only the third in Microsoft's history.
Mr. Nadella has focused on many of the same lines of business as his predecessors, and earlier investments in cloud computing and the Xbox videogame console have paid off under his watch.
Mr. Nadella has won over Wall Street with his willingness to cut jobs, favor innovation over existing businesses and de-emphasize products outside Microsoft's core offerings.
In the most recent quarter, Microsoft's revenue from software for business customers rose more than 9.5% from a year earlier.
The company had robust growth in both newer offerings such as Microsoft Office 365 (an online version of the popular desk-jockey software suite) and mature products like the version of Windows for computer servers.
Cloud software sold to businesses -- primarily Office 365, the Microsoft Dynamics CRM sales tool and the Azure cloud-computing service -- more than doubled to $1.18 billion, or roughly 5.1% of total revenue for the quarter.
But Microsoft executives said during a conference call that customers for Azure, which lets corporate IT departments and software developers rent computing horsepower and storage capacity by the hour, also buy the company's traditional corporate software.
Microsoft's mobile business remains a trouble spot. Sales of Windows-powered Nokia smartphones rose, but the company continues to lose market share to Apple Inc. and manufacturers of phones that run Google's Android operating software.
Microsoft made less money than it did a year earlier from its mobile-phone operating software business, largely because Android-phone makers such as Samsung Electronics Co. sold more of their inexpensive phones, which generate lower fees for Microsoft. Android phone makers pay Microsoft a royalty for Microsoft patents used in the Google operating system.
Sales of Windows operating software for personal computers also declined, but less than in prior quarters, driven by improving demand for PCs since their 2013 swoon.
The company made more headway with its other consumer hardware products.
Revenue more than doubled for the Surface tablet computer, which sold poorly when it launched two years ago. The Surface Pro 3, released in June, received a more positive reception, the company said. The newer device is positioned more as a laptop replacement than a tablet computer.
Microsoft also sold twice as many Xboxes as a year ago, it said, helped by a $100 price cut for the latest model.
Despite Microsoft's recent successes, Google tends to get the buzz once reserved for the Redmond, Wash., company.
In an interview, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood was unfazed. "I wasn't that cool in high school, either," she said.
Overall in the quarter, Microsoft revenue was $23.2 billion, including the Nokia business, compared with $18.5 billion a year ago. Net income fell to $4.5 billion, or 54 cents a share, from $5.2 billion, or 62 cents, in the same quarter last year.
Microsoft's profit was weighed down by about $1.1 billion, or 11 cents a share, in part due to costs related to a massive round of job cuts Mr. Nadella pushed through this summer.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141024eaao00037
UPDATE 2-South Korean Q3 GDP rebounds but global headwinds raise uncertainty
805 words
23 October 2014
21:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Consumption and construction up, investment down
* Exports suffer first drop in a year
* Central bank chief says growth still not firm
* BOK official says Q3 growth benefited from govt spending, weak Q2 growth (Adds official, analyst comments and recent background)
By Christine Kim
SEOUL, Oct 24 (Reuters) - South Korea's economic growth quickened in the third quarter as government and consumer spending rebounded, but exports were knocked by cooling global growth, a sign that more monetary easing may be required to sustain a fragile recovery.
Underscoring the tenuous economic momentum, the Bank of Korea said a large part of the consumption uptick was merely payback from a slump in the second quarter, when a ferry accident dented domestic travel and retail spending.
That took some of the shine off Friday's BOK data showing the economy grew a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent in July-September from the second quarter. It followed a 0.5 percent rise in the second quarter and matched the median 0.9 percent forecast in a Reuters survey of 21 analysts.
"(Third-quarter growth) was driven by domestic components, following weak readings in the previous quarter. But trade contracted and consumer confidence has not picked up meaningfully," said HSBC economist Ronald Man in a note.
"This suggests that policymakers in Korea will maintain an accommodative stance to support growth and we forecast the Bank of Korea to hold its policy rate at 2.00 percent over the foreseeable future."
Policymakers will be particularly concerned by data showing weaker sales abroad dampened spending on production equipment, suggesting a fragile economic recovery after growth slowed to its weakest pace in nearly two years in the June quarter.
"South Korea is doing relatively well compared to other countries but growth is not yet firm," said BOK Governor Lee Ju-yeol during a meeting with local conglomerate CEOs on Friday.
"Despite questions on what may happen to household debt, we lowered rates because it was important we keep the spark of recovery alive."
The Bank of Korea has cut interest rates by 50 basis points to match a record-low 2.00 percent in two moves this year.
After the latest cut earlier this month, the central bank gave no clear signal that its easing cycle had ended, keeping the door open for another reduction.
GLOBAL HEADWINDS
The export-reliant economy, home to global titans such as the world's biggest smartphone maker, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd , and car maker Hyundai Motor Co, has struggled since April from the effects of the ferry disaster and sluggish export growth.
On Thursday, Hyundai reported a 29 percent year-on-year fall in quarterly net profit, hit by a strong local currency and slowing sales in its key U.S. and South Korean markets.
While Asia's fourth-largest economy is seen to have passed a trough in the second quarter, analysts worry a tottering global economy could hamper the recovery.
Highlighting global uncertainties, Friday's data showed exports fell 2.6 percent from the previous three months, the first quarterly decline since the third quarter of 2013, when they dropped 1.1 percent.
A cooling Chinese economy and the threat of recession in Europe have raised doubts about global demand.
"As exports out of China weaken, our shipments are declining as well because South Korea mainly exports intermediate products to China," Jung Yung-taek, head of the central bank's statistics department, told reporters.
South Korea's manufacturing activity shrank in September to the lowest in three months as domestic and export demand cooled, a survey found earlier this month.
And industrial output in August had its worst monthly fall since the 2008 global financial crisis.
Despite cutting rates to shore up momentum, the full benefits of the BOK's monetary medicine won't be evident until the end of the fourth quarter, or early next year, due to the lagged transmission effects on the real economy.
A raft of new policies launched by Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan after he took office in July would also have provided only a modest boost to growth in the third quarter, as the bulk of the measures still need parliamentary approval.
From a year earlier, South Korea's gross domestic product rose 3.2 percent in the September quarter, below an expected 3.3 percent and slowing from a 3.5 percent increase in the second quarter.
The Bank of Korea estimated private consumption gained a seasonally adjusted 1.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.3 percent decline in the second. Capital investment fell 0.8 percent, after a 1.1 percent rise in the second quarter.
(Additional reporting by Choonsik Yoo; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) 
Released: 2014-10-24T03:26:44.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan00p4g
South Korea's Samsung C&T wins around $600-mln order in Turkey
130 words
23 October 2014
19:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SEOUL, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Samsung C&T Corp said on Friday it won a 630-billion won ($597 million) order to build a power plant in Turkey from Saudi Arabia's ACWA Power International <IPO-ACWA.SE>.
The South Korean builder said in a statement the construction of the gas combined cycle power plant in the Kirikkale region in Turkey is expected to be completed by May 2017.
Shares of Samsung C&T traded up 1 percent as of 0008 GMT, beating a 0.3 percent gain in the wider market. (1 US dollar = 1,058.3100 Korean won) (Reporting by Joyce Lee; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu) 
Released: 2014-10-24T01:12:25.000Z
Document LBA0000020141024eaao0008f
Synaptics revenue misses on weak demand from smartphone makers
116 words
23 October 2014
15:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 23 (Reuters) - Touchscreen chip maker Synaptics Inc reported lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue and adjusted profit, hurt by weak demand from smartphone makers, sending its shares down 8.5 percent in extended trading.
The company, which makes fingerprint ID and touchscreen chips for Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's smartphones, reported an adjusted profit of $1.04 per share and revenue of $282.7 million.
Analysts had expected a profit of $1.19 per share on revenue of $288.4 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. (Reporting By Lehar Maan in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel)
Released: 2014-10-26T20:38:51.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan00mdm
 Secretive Startup Unveils Universal Chip
WSJ Blogs, 14:33, 23 October 2014, 740 words, By Don Clark, (English)
Venture capitalists these days tend to avoid chip companies, largely because developing new products costs a bundle. That hasn't stopped Soft Machines. The Silicon Valley startup is trying to crack into a particularly tough niche in ...
Document WCWSJB0020141023eaan005sd
 Android Wear Gets GPS Tracking as Sony SmartWatch 3 Pre-Orders Begin
WSJ Blogs, 11:01, 23 October 2014, 329 words, By Nathan Olivarez-Giles, (English)
Google is taking its first step toward letting Android Wear watches function without being connected to a phone. On Thursday, the company began pushing a software update that will let watches both connect to a Bluetooth headset and play ...
Document WCWSJB0020141023eaan0048u
 Synaptics revenue misses on weak demand from smartphone makers
Reuters, 15:40, 23 October 2014, 206 words, (English)
(Reuters) - Touchscreen chip maker Synaptics Inc (SYNA.O) reported lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue and adjusted profit, hurt by weak demand from smartphone makers, sending its shares down 8.5 percent in extended trading.
Document WCLBA00020141023eaan006eo
Business
Logitech Says Tablet Slowdown Won¡¦t Derail Its Turnaround; Peripherals Maker Reported Second-Quarter Net Profit More Than Doubled
By John Revill 
539 words
23 October 2014
07:18
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ZURICH¡XLogitech International SA¡¦s turnaround won¡¦t be derailed by a slowdown in the tablet computer market, the company¡¦s chief executive said Thursday, even though the peripherals maker has hitched much of its revival to mobile computing devices.
On Wednesday, Logitech, based in Newark, Calif., and Lausanne, Switzerland, said its profit more than doubled during its second quarter, even though sales of tablet accessories, like detachable keyboards, fell 19% in the period amid a slowdown in tablet sales.
In an interview, Chief Executive Bracken Darrell said a slowdown in the tablet market wouldn¡¦t disrupt Logitech¡¦s growth. He said the company isn¡¦t dependent on one market, pointing to the success of a newly launched computer mouse designed for videogamers and mobile speakers.
¡§If tablets slow down, we have other growth areas,¡¨ said Mr. Darrell, adding that tablet accessory sales would likely pick up early next year as new products hit the market. ¡§We are not dependent on tablets or any one single platform to deliver our turnaround.¡¨
Logitech, the world¡¦s biggest maker of computer mouses, was caught flat-footed by the sudden rise of tablets and smartphones. Since taking over early last year, Mr. Darrell has pushed the company to have shorter design and production cycles so that its peripherals can be in stores shortly after the launch of new devices. Many of those are designed for popular tablet computers, like Apple Inc.¡¦s iPads and Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s Galaxy tablets.
However, growth in tablet computer sales has slowed this year. Worldwide unit shipments are expected to grow 11% in 2014, a sharp deceleration from 55% growth in 2013, according to estimates by market researcher Gartner Inc.
Logitech has broadened its product range, launching a new gaming keyboard and mouse, a new wireless mouse and a multiple-device keyboard that can be used with tablets and smartphones. Mr. Darrell said new products would continue to be launched in the coming months, including products for Apple¡¦s new iPad.
On Thursday, Logitech indicated the strategy was paying off. Net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 increased 151% to $36.1 million from $14.4 million a year earlier. The result, driven by cost cuts and the absence of restructuring charges it faced last year, beat analysts¡¦ forecast of $23.4 million.
Sales fell slightly to $530.3 million from $532 million a year earlier, in line with forecasts of $530 million.
Logitech confirmed its guidance for full-year operating income to $170 million.
¡§The results show that Logitech is no longer dependent on one or two categories,¡¨ said Michael Foeth, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. Mr. Foeth rates Logitech at buy.
During the period, Logitech¡¦s mobile speaker business was its star performer, posting triple-digit sales growth. The mobile speakers work with smartphones and tablet computers.
Logitech said an investigation of accounting matters related to previously issued financial statements is now closed. The company expects to file its reports as soon as possible with the SIX Swiss Exchange and Nasdaq, which carries its U.S. listing.
Document WSJO000020141023eaan001xh
Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
1,898 words
23 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
32
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
A Reason to Stress About Europe Banks
When everyone is staring in one direction, it often pays to look the other way.
European bank stocks have endured a wild ride as the Continent's "stress test" results near. The European Central Bank is due to release them Sunday. Greek, Portuguese and some Italian and Spanish banks have suffered especially.
That is understandable. There are plenty of questions about European banks' capital strength. And no one wants to own a bank that comes asking for more equity.
But too many banks have been tainted by this worry. So there is a good chance that solid, unloved institutions will rally once the uncertainty of the stress tests is past and investors can refocus on the ECB's stimulus efforts.
If, that is, the tests are credible. A lot rides on the stress tests for the ECB, which takes over eurozone bank supervision from national governments next month.
Its reputation will be based on its review of banks' books and the stress tests.
The last tests under the sole supervision of the European Banking Authority were risible; several banks passed only to require bailouts later.
Even with the ECB now at the helm, there is skepticism about how conclusive the tests will be. Europe, after all, has many competing voices and levels of economic health. Muddy political compromise is a near-inevitable outcome.
And the European tests can never draw the same bright line as did those in the U.S. in 2009. The ECB, for example, can tell a bank it must raise capital. But it can't promise that a government will inject some if the bank can't or won't.
However, because the last European tests didn't work and the ECB's own credibility rests on the new ones, there is a decent chance they will be good enough. While some banks will indeed fail, investors may find there is opportunity to be had in a glass-half-full approach.
As things now stand, banks such as ING Groep of the Netherlands and Credit Agricole or even BNP Paribas of France aren't valued as recovery stories with big gains due from once-bad assets. Nor are they shunned as weaklings or firms overburdened by regulatory fines to come.
ING has cleaned up its balance sheet, sold insurance businesses and is cutting funding costs. Credit Agricole has seen its capital base grow strongly, although a lot has come from investment gains in its insurance unit. BNP Paribas has yet to resolve a U.S. dollar-clearing ban that arose from its sanctions busting, but is performing well otherwise and should benefit from ECB monetary actions.
All three are valued at less than 0.9 times book value, while ING and BNP also have unchallenging forward price/earnings ratios of about 10 times. Credit Agricole trades at 11.5 times forward earnings, but has a lower book value multiple of 0.6 times.
A credible-enough stress-test result could see these kinds of banks rerated. If BNP's valuation moves up to the multiple of J.P. Morgan Chase's at about 0.94 times, for example, that would lift BNP's shares more than 30%.
Investors with a higher risk appetite also could look at weaker banks that might still pass, especially if hedge funds have bet heavily against those stocks. Their prices could leap if investors are forced to buy back stock to cover those short wagers.
Portugal's Banco Comercial Portugues and smaller Spanish banks like Sabadell and Banco Popular Espanol have heavy so-called short interest, according to data from Markit Group. Notably, the second-most-shorted bank stock in the Stoxx 600 is ING.
Beyond the stress tests, Europe still faces low economic growth and low interest rates, so it will be some time before banks see lending and interest-income growth. Then again, things have been so desperate that any signs of life would be good. And, should credible stress tests relieve capital concerns, European bank stocks will be looked at in a different way.
-- Paul J. Davies
BOE's Gloomier Outlook
Challenges U.K. Debt Bet
A bet that yields on U.K. and German government bonds would diverge has been a profitable strategy as markets increasingly priced in a strong U.K. recovery versus a lackluster eurozone performance. The latest Bank of England minutes, published Wednesday, show why that wager may be running out of steam.
The trade has worked ever since September 2012, when yields on 10-year U.K. gilts and German bunds were virtually level at around 1.55%, according to FactSet data. Since then, bund yields have fallen to 0.84% while gilt yields have risen to 2.22%. Since bond yields and prices move in inverse relation, this means gilt prices have fallen while those of bunds have risen.
But recent market volatility has taken its toll. The gap between the benchmark instruments has tightened from its widest level above 1.5 percentage points in September, when gilt yields hit 2.57%.
And there is growing reason to believe that the yield gap will have a tough time widening as significantly again. Inflation in the U.K. declined unexpectedly to 1.2% in September, well below the BOE's 2% target. And while the U.K. economy is expected to continue to grow, the pace may slow somewhat.
The third-quarter reading for U.K. growth, due Friday, will be closely watched in this regard. It isn't clear how well the U.K. can withstand weak growth in Europe and emerging markets.
The latest BOE minutes underline this. True, two members of the Monetary Policy Committee, Martin Weale and Ian McCafferty, continued to vote for a 0.25-percentage-point rate increase. That was despite the fact the committee knew the low inflation number when it met.
But the other seven committee members seemed to be more concerned about global developments and a lack of domestic inflationary pressures. BOE chief economist Andrew Haldane last week noted that his view of the economy was "gloomier" than a few months ago. Wage inflation seems likely to be the key factor to watch. So far, it has been notable by its absence.
The somewhat weaker outlook for the U.K. is a problem for the gilt-bund trade. Set against that, the eurozone position looks much more worrying. The ECB is still under pressure to loosen policy further; the U.K., by contrast, is still looking at rate increases, albeit starting later than the market thought until recently.
So the yield gap could widen again. But the big money likely has been made on this trade already.
-- Richard Barley
Samsung Finds Strength in Family
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung's runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung's leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung's mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company's operating profit last year, up from just around one-quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short-lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company's forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung's components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung's mobile business is worthless, which it isn't, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value -- a discount to rivals, which trade at an average of nearly three times -- and adding Samsung's cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock's true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle.
Similarly, Mr. Lee's heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Samsung Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung's smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren't reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
-- Aaron Back
Overheard
Gold and platinum are prized for their rarity. What is happening with their prices right now is also pretty unusual.
At about $1,245 an ounce, gold isn't far off parity with platinum at about $1,270. This doesn't happen often. In the past 20 years, gold has matched or exceeded the platinum price only about 7% of the time. And much of that occurred between the summer of 2011 and early 2013, when quantitative easing was in full swing and hyperbole about the dollar's demise was at its height.
Similarly, the current price action reflects an anxious world. Gold hasn't really gained much this year; rather, platinum has collapsed since July. This makes sense. as more than half of platinum demand relates to industrial, primarily, automotive uses. Deflation fears have hurthave industrial commodities.
Gold usually benefits when such extreme scenarios seem plausible. There is one twist: Negative inflation would imply rising real interest rates. The latter erode the case for holding nonyielding assets such as precious metals. Even so, the rare melding of gold and platinum prices is an unwelcome sign that optimism about growth is rapidly becoming the rarest commodity of all.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document WSJE000020141023eaan00016
UPDATE 2-Hyundai Motor eyes dividend hike to soothe investors; shares surge
686 words
23 October 2014
04:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Q3 net down 29 pct at 1.5 trln won vs consensus of 1.79 trln won
* Stronger won weighs on earnings
* Hyundai considers sharply raising dividend, weighs interim div (Recasts with president's comments on dividends, adds details)
By Hyunjoo Jin
SEOUL, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Hyundai Motor is considering paying its first ever interim dividend next year, its president said on Thursday, in an apparent bid to appease investors angered by its involvement in a $10 billion purchase of a trophy property in Seoul.
The possibility of a larger payout, which President Lee Won-hee revealed as the company reported its third-quarter earnings, helped Hyundai Motor shares to post their biggest daily percentage gain in two-and-half years.
The company, which along with its affiliate Kia Motors Corp is the world's fifth largest automaker, had earlier posted a 29 percent drop in its third-quarter net profit, slightly below analysts' estimates.
"To respond to the government's policy and to have a shareholder friendly policy, we are considering expanding dividends significantly and paying out an interim dividend from next year," said Lee, who is also chief financial officer.
Dividend payouts in South Korea are among the lowest globally, and the government is considering taxes to change that.
Shareholders have punished Hyundai Motor since it and two sister companies bid $10 billion last month for a plot of land in Seoul's high-end Gangnam district to house a headquarters, theme park and shopping mall.
The cost of the deal, more than triple the appraised value of the property, and sparked worries about the family-run Hyundai Group's governance. The group's plans to fund it with cash also dented investors' hopes for higher dividends from its listed units.
"Today's announcement helped ease shareholder disappointment after the property deal," said Kim Sung-soo, a fund manager at LS Asset Management, which holds Hyundai Motor shares.
"There is room for Hyundai to achieve further growth although rising competition, a weaker yen and slowdown in China, Hyundai's biggest market, remain major risks," he said.
Before the dividend announcement, Hyundai Motor's stock was down than 30 percent lower so far this year, making it the worst performer among its global peers.
Its shares ended up 5.9 percent on Thursday, a day after hitting their lowest levels in four years, partly due to investors concerns that its third-quarter profit may miss forecasts. It was the stock's biggest percentage gain since April 2012.
Hyundai is not alone in dangling the prospect of bigger payouts to ease shareholder pressure. In January, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, under pressure to appease investors who have berated it for hoarding the spoils of rapid growth, pledged to hand out even more profit after almost doubling its full-year dividend to a record $2 billion.
The company, however, in July kept its interim dividend unchanged from last year.
EARNINGS SEEN IMPROVING IN Q4
Hyundai has struggled with increasing competition at home and abroad, as well as a stronger local currency which has reduced the value of its repatriated overseas earnings.
Its revamped Sonata sedan, which the company had hoped would revive sluggish sales in the key U.S. and domestic markets, has been criticised as bland, especially compared to its predecessor.
Lee acknowledged the new Sonata had "not kicked off to a strong start" but said Hyundai expected to boost sales through word-of-mouth.
He also said the company plans to launch new models with improved fuel efficiency with next-generation engines and transmission.
Lee forecast fourth-quarter earnings would improve sharply, largely due to the won easing against the U.S. dollar and better sales performance of newer models. The South Korean won rose to its highest levels against the dollar since the 2008 global financial crisis in the third quarter, the company said.
($1 = 1,055.4200 Korean won) (Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin; Additional reporting by Vincent Lee and Sohee Kim; Editing by Miral Fahmy) 
Released: 2014-10-23T10:41:01.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan003kw
Azerbaijan to complete fertiliser, chemical plants in 2016
367 words
23 October 2014
04:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
BAKU, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Azerbaijan plans to complete the construction of a fertiliser plant with an annual capacity 700,000 tonnes of carbamide as well as chemical plants by the end of 2016, the head of Azerkhimia state company said.
Mukhtar Babayev told Reuters the carbamide plant would be ready for operation at the end of the first quarter of 2017.
He said the plant, costing around 500 million euros and to be financed from the state budget, would include sections for the production of carbamide, also known as urea, and ammonia.
"We will satisfy domestic demand in fertilisers and export to the countries of the region as well as to the world markets via Black Sea ports in Georgia," Babayev said.
Samsung Engineering is the general contractor for the project.
Azerbaijan was planning to build another fertiliser plant with the same capacity in neighbouring Georgia, but Babayev said the project was being reviewed and the final decision would be made later.
"Some corrections have been made and we are discussing details of this project," Babayev said.
He said that apart from the production of fertilisers, Azerbaijan planned to build facilities for production of polypropylene and polythene at a chemical industrial park in the city of Sumgait, some 19 miles outside the capital Baku.
The polypropylene plant, with an annual capacity of 150,000 tonnes, was expected to start production at the end of 2016, while the polythene plant, with an annual capacity of 100,000 tonnes, would be ready in the beginning of 2017.
Azerkhimia, a part of Azeri state energy company SOCAR, produced 68,100 tonnes of polythene, 39,600 tonnes of polypropylene and other chemical products in the first nine months of this year. Total production of all chemical products rose to 271,896 tonnes in January-September from 231,524 tonnes in the same period last year.
The company exports its products via Georgian Black Sea port of Poti to neighbouring Turkey and Georgia, European countries as well as the United States and countries in Asia.
(Reporting by Nailia Bagirova; Writing by Margarita Antidze; Editing by David Evans) 
Released: 2014-10-23T10:14:14.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan0078w
Huawei says third-quarter smartphone shipments jump 26 percent, strong demand for high-end devices
By Yimou Lee   
423 words
23 October 2014
05:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
HONG KONG (Reuters) - China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd said third-quarter smartphone shipments jumped 26 percent year-on-year, doubling devices shipped to the high-margin premium market dominated by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Apple Inc.
Shenzhen-based Huawei, the world's third-biggest smartphone supplier after the dominant pair, shipped 16.8 million smartphones globally in the quarter ended Sept. 30, according to company data. About a quarter of those were mid- to high-end models, more than twice as many as the same period last year.
"We are breaking our bottlenecks of mid- to high-end models step by step, especially in overseas markets," Huawei consumer business group marketing executive Shao Yang told Reuters in an interview.
Huawei, like Chinese rivals Lenovo Group Ltd and ZTE Corp, is better known for selling low- and mid-priced handsets in emerging markets than high-end models in developed countries.
Industry watchers say that although Huawei's premium devices are cutting-edge, the company has struggled to break into the high-end sector markets like the United States due to a lack of brand recognition and security concerns. Huawei had 6.7 percent of the global smartphone market in the second quarter, a distant third behind Samsung Electronics and Apple, according to analysis firm IDC.
As if to prove a point, Huawei unveiled a smartphone with an advanced sapphire glass display just days before Apple released its highly anticipated iPhone 6 in September.
"We have never questioned our ability to make products, but sometimes we are worried if we could occupy a place emotionally in consumers' hearts. So we will try to achieve that next year," Shao said.
Huawei's global marketing budget would leap at least 30 percent in 2015, compared with $440 million this year, he said.
The company has shipped 51 million smartphones globally in the first three quarters of 2014 - about 63.8 percent of its annual shipment target of 80 million, according to Reuters' calculations, based on figures provided by Huawei.
Shao said he expected quarter-on-quarter shipments growth of up to 80 percent in the fourth quarter, a peak holiday season for smartphone vendors.
A little more than half of Huawei's smartphone shipments went to China in the third quarter. Elsewhere, the Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific recorded the strongest growth.
(Editing by Stephen Coates and Kenneth Maxwell) 
Released: 2014-10-23T10:08:44.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan006va
Huawei says Q3 smartphone shipments jump 26 pct
106 words
23 October 2014
03:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
HONG KONG, Oct 23 (Reuters) - China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd said third-quarter smartphone shipments jumped 26 percent on year with a doubling of shipments in the high-margin premium market dominated by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Apple Inc.
Shenzhen-based Huawei shipped 16.8 million smartphones globally in the quarter ended Sept. 30, according to company data. About a quarter of those shipments were mid- to high-end models, more than twice as many as the same period last year. (Reporting by Yimou Lee; Editing by Ryan Woo) 
Released: 2014-10-23T09:07:41.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan006da
Business
Hyundai Motor¡¦s Profit Skids; Korea Won¡¦s Strength Hurting Competitiveness
By In-Soo Nam 
592 words
22 October 2014
21:59
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SEOUL¡XHyundai Motor Co.¡¦s third-quarter net profit fell 28%, hurt by a stronger local currency, work stoppages by unionized employees and weak local sales of its new flagship Sonata sedan.
¡§We expect uncertainty surrounding the auto market, including volatile foreign exchange rates, to continue for the time being. If the currency stabilizes, our earnings could improve in the fourth quarter, when we also plan some new-car launches,¡¨ the company said.
The world¡¦s fifth-biggest auto maker, when combined with affiliate Kia Motors Corp., has been struggling to compete with rivals as the stronger won, particularly against a weaker yen, has made its exports more expensive. Earlier this year Hyundai set its annual sales growth target at just 4%, its most conservative in over a decade.
The won is hovering around a six-year high against the yen, which has been depressed by Tokyo¡¦s ultra-easy monetary policy since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office. Against the dollar, the won was on average 7.6% stronger in the third quarter, compared with a year ago.
Japan and South Korea are major competitors in the global market for shipments of electronics, automobiles and other products, making the exchange rate between the two nations vital for companies like Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co.
Hyundai said Thursday that its third-quarter net profit dropped to 1.62 trillion won ($1.53 billion) from 2.25 trillion won a year earlier.
Operating profit fell 18% from a year earlier to 1.65 trillion won, while revenue rose 2.2% to 21.28 trillion won.
Its bottom line was also hurt by union strikes.
Hyundai, which has one of the country¡¦s most militant labor groups, has been hit by strikes in all but four years of its union¡¦s nearly three decade history. Hyundai¡¦s 47,000 union members¡Xabout 80% of the firm¡¦s workforce¡Xhave held a series of stoppages from August this year.
Those strikes and similar labor actions at affiliate Kia. have led to lost production of more than 20,000 cars worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
More recently, Hyundai¡¦s workers downed their tools last month to protest a successful bid by the company and its two affiliates to buy a plot of land in southern Seoul for $10 billion¡Xmore than three times its appraised value. The winning bid sent the company¡¦s into a sharp decline, and they briefly traded at a four-year low of 157,500 won on Wednesday.
After the earnings announcement, Hyundai¡¦s stock surged 5.9% to end Thursday at 171,000 won, as Hyundai executives said fourth-quarter profits are expected to improve because the won¡¦s strengthening has slowed.
Also, Lee Won-hee, the company¡¦s chief financial officer, said it plans to increase dividend payments and is also considering an interim dividend from next year, to enhance shareholder value.
Still, Hyundai faces growing challenges as foreign rivals encroach on its home turf.
Free-trade deals that have halved tariffs on foreign cars in South Korea helped lift imported auto sales to nearly 15% of total sales so far this year, from below 2% a decade ago.
As part of its efforts to attract customers, Hyundai launched its revamped flagship midsize sedan, called the Sonata, in April.
Sales of the new Sonata, however, nearly halved in September from 11,904 in April as drivers increasingly favor sport-utility vehicles.
Document WSJO000020141023eaan0018h
 Huawei says third-quarter smartphone shipments jump 26 percent
Reuters, 03:14, 23 October 2014, 195 words, (English)
HONG KONG (Reuters) - China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd [HWT.UL] said third-quarter smartphone shipments jumped 26 percent on year with a doubling of shipments in the high-margin premium market dominated by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and ...
Document WCLBA00020141023eaan002k2
UPDATE 1-SK Hynix Q3 profit at record high on firm chip demand
400 words
22 October 2014
19:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds further earnings figures, context, shares)
* Q3 operating profit jumps 11.7 pct, matches forecasts
* SK Hynix says revenue up for all product groups
* Smartphones, PCs boost sales
SEOUL, Oct 23 (Reuters) - SK Hynix Inc, the world's second-biggest memory chip maker, reported record quarterly profit for the July-September period as the launch of new smartphones and steady demand from the personal computer sector boosted earnings.
The firm said shipments of DRAM chips used mainly in personal computers rose 7 percent from the previous period, while its average selling price held steady. Shipments for NAND chips used mainly in mobile devices climbed 26 percent although their average price fell 2 percent.
Memory chip makers have enjoyed strong profits so far this year thanks to better-than-expected demand for personal computers and servers as well as to careful capacity management.
The South Korean firm, which competes with Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Micron Technology Inc, reported an operating profit of 1.3 trillion won ($1.24 billion), matching the mean forecast from a Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S poll of 36 analysts.
Revenue grew 5.6 percent from a year earlier to 4.3 trillion won, also a quarterly record with growth in every product group.
Samsung's plan to invest nearly $15 billion in a new South Korean chip plant has sparked worries about a price war, although analysts say the facility probably will not impact global supply until 2017.
Samsung Chief Executive Kwon Oh-hyun told reporters earlier this month he did not expect a price war to break out next year, supporting a widely held belief that memory market conditions will remain healthy until at least 2015.
Market researcher DRAMeXchange said that average contract prices for 4-gigabyte DRAM chips rose by 2.34 percent in the first half of October and that additional price increases were likely due to strong demand for mobile phones and servers.
Rival Micron late last month reported better-than-expected results for its fiscal fourth quarter.
SK Hynix shares were up 0.1 percent after the earnings release, compared with a 0.2 percent rise in the benchmark Kospi share index (1 US dollar = 1,052.4600 Korean won) (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) 
Released: 2014-10-23T01:14:57.000Z
Document LBA0000020141023eaan0000i
Corporate News: At Sony, Hopes Dim For Its Smartphones
By Takashi Mochizuki   
505 words
23 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
22
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
TOKYO -- Sony Corp. is considering slashing its smartphone sales target again, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, as the business struggles in the face of fierce competition -- especially in emerging markets.
The Japanese electronics giant is likely to trim its smartphone sales target by several millions of units from the current goal of 43 million for the 12 months ending March 2015, those people said. A lowering of the sales target would be the second downward revision of the forecast in the current business year started in April. The original goal was 50 million, which many analysts said at the time was too optimistic.
The expected revision stems from Sony's plan to reduce its presence in some markets, especially emerging nations such as China, by pulling its entry-level handsets.
Sony disappointed investors in September when it announced it would write down 180 billion yen ($1.68 billion) of the smartphone segment's business value and forecast a 230 billion yen net loss for the current business year -- almost five times what it previously expected.
For Sony watchers, the latest plan won't come as much of a surprise, as company executives, including Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai, have signaled a downsizing of the smartphone business in some countries after concluding that introducing entry-level models for emerging markets was a mistake. Sony plans to hold a meeting with investors in November, and Chief Financial Officer Kenichiro Yoshida said details of how it will update the smartphone business plan would be unveiled there.
Sony's Xperia smartphone business was once a star player for the company, but is now experiencing trouble. It has been hit by the emergence of Chinese makers of cheap handsets, while it continues to struggle in competition against market leaders Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
The Xperia will remain a core business for the company along with image sensors and the gaming business, but Mr. Yoshida has said at news conferences that the smartphone segment will focus on high-end models and won't seek a major share of the global market.
Mr. Hirai said in September that Sony would cut 1,000 jobs, or 15% of its global smartphone business workforce, by March. Some analysts said the cuts weren't enough to turn around the segment.
Sony is to announce its results for the July-September period on Oct. 31. While analysts expect a net loss due to the 180 billion yen smartphone charges, they say it is unlikely the company would again revise its earnings forecast lower for the year.
New York hedge-fund firm Third Point LLC, which unsuccessfully sought a partial spinoff of Sony's entertainment business, said Tuesday said that it had sold its stake in Sony for a return of nearly 20%, saying in a letter to its investors that "more urgency" was necessary to "definitively turn around the company's fortunes."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141022eaan0001g
Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
1,133 words
23 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
32
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Samsung Electronics Finds
Strength in Product Family
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung's runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung's leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung's mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company's operating profit last year, up from just around a quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short-lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company's forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers that rely on the same Android operating system Samsung uses.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung's components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
In logic chips, Samsung lost a major customer when Apple switched over to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing for its iPhones. But Samsung is ahead of TSMC in the next generation of smaller-transistor chips, and analysts predict it will win back some Apple orders next year. Similarly in displays, Samsung is at the technological forefront with organic light-emitting diode technology.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung's mobile business is worthless, which it isn't, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value -- a discount to rivals, which trade at an average of nearly three times -- and adding Samsung's cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock's true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle.
Similarly, Mr. Lee's heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Samsung Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung's smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren't reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
-- Aaron Back
The Clock Ticks as Yahoo
Searches for Some Answers
Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer has bought herself some time. But the clock is still ticking.
Yahoo reported better-than-expected third-quarter revenue and profit on Tuesday. Revenue rose 1% versus a year earlier. That is paltry for a tech company but still better than year-over-year declines seen in some recent quarters.
Notably, the company broke out its mobile revenue for the first time, saying it came in at $200 million in the quarter. It also forecast gross mobile revenue of $1.2 billion this year.
That is a major shift. And Yahoo said mobile, social, native and video ads rose a combined 80% year over year. The gains appear to be helping offset declines in Yahoo's traditional display-ad business.
Yet they also may raise eyebrows. Yahoo offered few details on how it accomplished such a sizable swing. The company previously had declined to break out mobile revenue, saying it wasn't material to results.
As well, Yahoo's $1.2 billion forecast amounts to nearly 28% of analysts' consensus estimates for 2014 revenue. That seems to require Yahoo to shift revenue to mobile at an even faster pace in the fourth quarter.
Perhaps more important, Yahoo gave few answers on how it planned to use the net $6.3 billion in cash it got from selling shares in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding when that company went public last month. Instead, Ms. Mayer defended her acquisition track record and highlighted the $7.7 billion in shares Yahoo has bought back during her tenure.
Yahoo also kicked the can down the road on its strategy for reducing the tax bill on the stakes of Alibaba and Yahoo Japan it continues to own.
Things at Yahoo don't seem to be getting worse. But it is too soon to call them better.
-- Miriam Gottfried
Overheard
When the cat's away, the mice will trade.
Recent years haven't been kind to stock analysts. Fair-disclosure rules led investors to see less value in Wall Street research. Regulatory scrutiny gave firms more reason to rethink research. From 2000 to 2008, 43 brokers closed research departments. But for chief executives and other corporate insiders looking to trade their companies' shares, this was a boon, suggests research from Wei Wu, a graduate student at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
Mr. Wu looked at trading behavior of insiders at companies with five or fewer analysts when, as a result of research-department closures, coverage was reduced. He found for each analyst a company lost, returns reaped by insiders increased. Mr. Wu's favored explanation: Important information that would otherwise have been transmitted to investors was lost, increasing trading opportunities for insiders.
Another possibility is that with fewer analysts monitoring the company, insiders felt they had a freer hand to trade.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141022eaan00013
World News: Asia: Indonesia President Turns to Economy
By Ben Otto   
862 words
23 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
4
English
Copyright ? 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Joko Widodo is the first entrepreneur to become president of Indonesia, and his supporters hope his history of pragmatism and disdain for red tape will help him modernize the country's economy.
But standing in the way of change is a system of entrenched interests, corruption and growing economic nationalism that has limited growth, discouraged foreign investment and left Southeast Asia's largest economy in the bottom half of World Bank rankings for ease of doing business.
Mr. Widodo, a former furniture exporter, has yet to lay out specific economic plans.
"To be honest," one of his close advisers said, speaking of his economic policies, "none of us know."
However, there are clues that beneath his action-oriented surface he supports a conventional Indonesian government view of the world that shuns imports, favors state-owned enterprises and restricts foreign activity.
"The prevailing wind in Indonesia is blowing in the direction of reduced foreign involvement in the economy," said Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC. "There is a risk that President Widodo follows the more restrictive trend set by his predecessor."
Indonesian politicians have long suggested that foreigners get too good a deal. In recent years, Indonesia has introduced new limits on foreign investment, including declaring oil-and-gas services off limits, restricting foreign employment, forcing many foreign miners to reduce stakes in their companies, and introducing new requirements for local product sourcing. Mining came to a near-standstill this year when the government banned the export of minerals that hadn't been fully refined in an attempt to force investment in refineries.
Foreign investment has slowed over the past year and while it remains at record levels for Indonesia, it remains proportionally far less than in neighboring developing countries such as Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam, and even less than in similar large developing countries with their own nationalist history, such as Brazil.
Mr. Widodo needs more foreign investment to fund infrastructure that is breaking at the seams and to plug gaps in the country's accounts -- all the more important with economic growth near its lowest level in four years.
But Mr. Widodo hasn't publicly made that argument, or any case against the economic thinking that dogs the near-trillion-dollar economy. His infrastructure plans so far target developing more deep-sea ports around the country to spread the benefits of growth to poorer regions.
On balance, said Doug Ramage, Jakarta-based analyst for BowerGroupAsia, the president's "pragmatism shines through," and his stated intent to simplify a complex system of regulations and clean up the bureaucracy would help local and foreign businesses alike. But "he has not yet pushed back strongly against the economic nationalism that will hold Indonesia back."
Companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Ltd., or Foxconn, have repeatedly passed on Indonesia as a site of major manufacturing, citing difficulties in negotiating land acquisition and tax holidays, among other issues. And at a time when companies are exiting China because of higher labor costs, Vietnam, which in proportional terms attracts more than the double Indonesia's FDI, is emerging as the regional winner.
Mr. Widodo has repeated common refrains that the nation of 250 million people needs higher growth, better infrastructure and added value across sectors. "Investors usually complain about four things," he said Monday after his inauguration. "Fuel subsidies, infrastructure, bureaucratic reform and electricity. That's it."
During presidential debates, Mr. Widodo said he would honor the sanctity of contracts, key for the foreign energy and extractive companies that have spent tens of billions of dollars for decades developing Indonesia's natural resources such as oil, gas and mineral deposits. He said that upon expiration, he would consider letting state-owned companies take them over.
Mr. Widodo has repeatedly told businesspeople that Indonesia isn't ready to compete internationally. In a debate, he said that once a Southeast Asian regional free-trade pact takes force next year, the government could still introduce measures to make things "a little difficult" for foreign investors.
Mr. Widodo has suggested that the country imports too much and that he would push efforts to develop local car and defense industries, dreams that go back at least to the former authoritarian ruler Suharto, who was deposed in 1998.
He argues that Indonesia needs to become self-sufficient in agriculture, though such policies introduced by previous leaders have led to price spikes and corruption-inducing quotas on beef and other foodstuffs to protect the development of local agriculture.
Agricultural self-sufficiency, OCBC economist Wellian Wiranto said, "can potentially be read as another area of resource nationalism."
Mr. Widodo has said he intends to appoint nonpartisan professionals in key ministries and has stated he will cut billions of dollars in fuel subsidies that leave little budget left to fund infrastructure development.
"Our sense is that this administration realizes the immediate and long-term challenges it faces to keep the economy growing," said Andrew White, managing director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document AWSJ000020141022eaan0000x
Tech
iPad Air 2 Review: The Best Tablet Needs to Work Harder; It Has a Quality Screen and Build but It Needs to Go Beyond One-App-at-a-Time Functionality
By Joanna Stern 
1,459 words
22 October 2014
07:40
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
When Steve Jobs plopped down on the couch, minutes after showing off the iPad for the first time, he said, ¡§It¡¦s so much more intimate than a laptop and so much more capable than a smartphone.¡¨
Four years later, as I watch the YouTube video of the iPad¡¦s debut keynote on the incredibly thin iPad Air 2, that sentence makes my brain ache. Laptops now have touch screens, smartphones are huge and powerful, and tablets now have keyboards. At least, those tablets made by the competition.
Apple¡¦s newest tablet, which goes on sale this week starting at $499, remains true to Jobs¡¦s tablet ideals. It¡¦s the best tablet you can buy¡Xespecially if you want to read headlines on the morning commute, watch ¡§Frozen¡¨ in the back seat and create intricate ¡§Minecraft¡¨ metropolises after dark. If you¡¦ve been waiting to replace an older iPad, now¡¦s the time.
But as I hold the thin piece of glass that would have been unimaginable five years ago, I look over at the Microsoft Surface Pro 3 and Galaxy Tab S 10.5 and feel like I am missing something. How this iPad stacks up depends entirely on where you plan to take it¡Xand what you want to do with it.
Home Alone
There¡¦s still no tablet I¡¦d rather cozy up with in bed or on the couch. In those situations, the 6.1mm Air 2 really lives up to its name.
No, we aren¡¦t at the point where it feels like you¡¦re holding a feather, but there is a substantial difference between grasping the 0.96-pound Air 2 and any of the earlier iPads with one hand. I even noticed a difference between it and last year¡¦s original Air. Apple has squeezed down the svelte case so much that it feels as if you¡¦re holding nothing but a screen.
The iPad Air 2 is also far more manageable than Samsung¡¦s Galaxy Tab S 10.5, and its premium aluminum build and soft curved edges top Samsung¡¦s slimy, dimpled plastic cover.
With the lightweight Air 2, you¡¦re more likely to avoid that always painful iPad-on-the-face-fall when you nod off to sleep on the couch. Still, in most situations the smaller iPad Mini is less cumbersome to hold up.
For the things I do when I¡¦ve got my feet up (read long articles I¡¦ve saved in Pocket, sift through Twitter, watch back-to-back episodes of ¡§How I Met Your Mother¡¨), the iPad still beats the competition. The apps are better and more numerous, and they look great on the Retina display.
And shopping online can only get better with the iPad Air 2¡¦s new Touch ID sensor, as soon as more places allow you to use a finger scan instead of a password or credit-card number. And why hasn¡¦t Apple used Touch ID to create multiple iPad user accounts, since the tablet is so often shared among family members?
The Great Outdoors
The new Air¡¦s display addresses one of my biggest complaints about previous iPads: You can finally see the screen outdoors. A thinner display with an anti-reflective layer means unless the sun is really beating down, there¡¦s no need to pitch a towel tent over the screen while sitting by the pool. (Unfortunately, the new iPad Mini 3 doesn¡¦t have the improved screen.)
In my outdoor test, the Air 2 beat last year¡¦s Air, Samsung¡¦s Tab S and Amazon¡¦s previous Fire HDX, displaying a more even balance under both sunlight and shade. Outdoors, it only loses to a bona fide e-reader like the Kindle Paperwhite. But you¡¦ll still have to crank the brightness all the way up to see the screen in the sun, which will run down the battery faster.
That anti-reflective screen also makes a great, though admittedly ginormous, viewfinder for snapping nature shots with the revamped 8-megapixel camera. It takes much crisper shots than before, and in many cases, ones as good as those I can take with my iPhone 6. But I won¡¦t bring my iPad to some mountain peak, as some Apple promo shots suggest. My phone¡¦s camera is the fastest one for me to grab. And it has a flash for low-light situations and took clearer photos of a speedy pig I met in a New York City park. (Relax, it was on a leash.)
Besides, when I set the iPad Air 2 down for a second on a bench, it slid off and hit concrete, shattering the screen. Sure, I¡¦m to blame, but if Apple wants me to climb every mountain armed with nothing but an iPad, ruggedness should be as important as anti-reflectivity.
Planes, Trains and Automobiles
For commuters and travelers, the good news is the Air 2, despite being 18% thinner than the previous Air, still manages to deliver 10 hours of battery life. I didn¡¦t even take the charger out of the box until after I used the tablet for an entire cross-country flight and then a nonstop morning of checking email and writing.
Battery-wise, when it comes to streaming video, the Air 2 and its greatest Samsung rival are pretty evenly matched. At max brightness¡Xwhere the Air 2¡¦s screen is brighter than the 10.5-inch Galaxy Tab S¡Xthe Samsung lasted nine hours where the iPad ran only six. However, when I set the brightness to 50%, the iPad pulled ahead of the Galaxy. (I recommend using auto brightness unless you really need to step it up.)
Improved wireless connectivity is another boon for road warriors. The Air 2 has a faster wireless chip, which, in my testing, loaded Web pages a hair quicker than its predecessor. The cellular model (which, as usual, costs $130 more than its Wi-Fi counterpart, but has dramatically improved 4G LTE) is pre-installed with an Apple SIM that makes it easier to switch service providers, both domestically and abroad. It should be easier for you to use T-Mobile here in the U.S., then buy some gigabytes on the U.K. wireless carrier EE if you happen to be visiting London.
Career Opportunities
If you¡¦re like me, though, you¡¦ll still lug your laptop on business trips. Even as a basic work companion, the Air 2 doesn¡¦t do nearly enough to keep up with the latest competition.
The new A8X processor provides a performance boost, so the iOS 8 operating system and immersive full-screen apps respond to taps and swipes faster. And while iPad apps in general are superior to the stretched phone apps you too often see on Android tablets, I wish I could see more apps on the screen at the same time, the way I can with a Surface or Galaxy Tab.
I constantly yearned for that functionality while responding to emails about potential meeting times, tapping the home button frenetically to switch to the calendar. I yearned for it as I wrote this column, jumping to the messaging app to update my editor on my progress. I even yearned for it when I wasn¡¦t anywhere near my desk, surfing the Web and attempting to tweet an article.
I¡¦d also really love a better way to type. While I¡¦ve gotten faster on Apple¡¦s latest software keyboard (predictive QuickType helps), I¡¦m far more productive typing on real keys. Microsoft¡¦s $80 Universal Mobile Keyboard is one of the best you can buy, but it won¡¦t prop up the screen well enough¡Xand doesn¡¦t double as a cover.
The iPad Air 2 pushes forward in all the ways you¡¦d expect Apple¡¦s tablet to. The blend of screen, build and app quality make it the best full-size tablet you can buy.
But it doesn¡¦t move ahead in one area where some of us have been waiting (desperately) for evolution: true multi-tasking, going beyond the one-app-at-a-time functionality. Perhaps that¡¦s the big surprise that Apple will bring when it introduces a 12.9-inch iPad next year.
It would be nice to see the iPad get beyond the lean-back experience that¡¦s been the focus since Steve Jobs first sat down on the couch.
Write to Joanna Stern at joanna.stern@wsj.com and follow her on Twitter @joannastern.
Document WSJO000020141022eaal0008e
 A Major Airbag Recall Is Expanded
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 22 October 2014, 639 words, (English)
Summary: U.S. safety regulators add more vehicles to a major airbag recall. Johnson & Johnson will begin human tests of an Ebola vaccine. And Target will roll out some new customer-friendly services for the holidays. The Wall Street ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141022eaam000jh
 Stocks Took A Hit Today
The Wall Street Journal What's News, 22 October 2014, 654 words, (English)
Summary: The Consumer Price Index edged higher in September, FedEx expects another record for holiday-season deliveries, Reynolds American snuffs out in-house smoking and Target has a special offer for the holidays. Jen Ursillo has these ...
Document MMSAJZ0020141022eaam000m9
 Yahoo Shares Surge
The Wall Street Journal Tech Talk, 22 October 2014, 687 words, (English)
Summary: Wednesday was a big day for Yahoo shares and a look at the new iPad.
Good evening this is only date tech briefing from the Wall Street Journal for Wednesday October 22 on some more T cells. In the tech headlines Samsung and Thornton ...
Document MMSAJW0020141022eaam0002t
Markets
Samsung Finds Strength in Family of Products; Electronics Company Leads in Areas Such as Chips and Displays; Valuation Is Inexpensive
By Aaron Back 
647 words
22 October 2014
04:50
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung¡¦s runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung¡¦s leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung¡¦s mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company¡¦s operating profit last year, up from just around a quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company¡¦s forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers who rely on the same Android operating system Samsung uses.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung¡¦s components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
In logic chips, Samsung lost a major customer when Apple switched over to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing for its iPhones. But Samsung is ahead of TSMC in the next generation of smaller-transistor chips, and analysts predict it will win back some Apple orders next year. Similarly in displays, Samsung is at the technological forefront with organic light-emitting diode technology.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung¡¦s mobile business is worthless, which it isn¡¦t, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value¡Xa discount to rivals, who trade at an average of nearly three times¡Xand adding Samsung¡¦s cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock¡¦s true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle. Similarly, Mr. Lee¡¦s heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung¡¦s smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren¡¦t reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
Document WSJO000020141022eaam003uy
 The Morning Download: GOP¡¦s Tech Culture Clash Is a Familiar Story
CIO Report, 07:06, 22 October 2014, 2397 words, By Tom Loftus, (English)
The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
Document WCCIOR0020141022eaam00001
UPDATE 1-Laird's 3rd-quarter revenue rises as phone makers snap up components
345 words
22 October 2014
02:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Q3 revenue rises 6.4 pct
* Revenue boosted in part by iPhone 6 launch- Analysts
* Laird says expectations for full year unchanged
* Shares rise as much as 4.4 pct (Adds analyst comments, details, share movement)
Oct 22 (Reuters) - Laird Plc, a British electronic components maker, said third-quarter revenue rose 6.4 percent, driven by increased business from customers launching new products, selling more smartphones and investing in 4G LTE networks.
The company's shares rose as much as 4.5 percent to rank among the top percentage gainers on the FTSE 250 index on Wednesday morning.
Laird, whose customers include Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, said trading was in line and its expectations for the full year remained unchanged.
Revenue in the quarter rose to 150 million pounds from 141 million pounds a year earlier.
The revenue boost was mainly due to growth at its performance materials division, which makes products to ward off electromagnetic interference, manage heat dissipation and maintain signal quality in mobile phones and other electronics.
The division gained from Apple's iPhone 6 launch, share gains at Samsung and continued investment in LTE in China, Liberum analysts wrote in a note to clients.
Revenue from the business rose 8 percent to 101 million pounds, while Laird's wireless systems division, which makes antennas and remote control systems, saw a 3 percent rise in revenue.
Laird, which also makes smart chips for GPS and radio systems in cars, said the rise in wireless revenue was in part due to increased demand for its telematics products from the automotive market, particularly in North America.
The smaller signal-integrity business declined from a year earlier when the Xbox gaming console sales peaked, Liberum analysts said.
Laird's shares were up 4 percent at 306.6 pence 0755 GMT on the London Stock Exchange. ($1 = 0.6202 British pound) (Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) 
Released: 2014-10-22T08:57:20.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam00789
HitachiMaxell cuts profit forecast, reduces headcount in battery unit
253 words
22 October 2014
02:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
TOKYO, Oct 22 (Reuters) - Hitachi Maxell Ltd cut its annual operating profit forecast by 40 percent to 5.1 billion yen ($48 million) on Wednesday and said it would reduce headcount in its lithium ion battery business after high-end smartphone sales sagged.               
The Japanese electronics maker, which supplies lithium ion batteries for Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's  smartphones, said it would offer voluntary retirement packages to 130 staff over 40-years old at the end of Feb 2015 and outsource an increased proportion of batteries after that.               
Samsung's July-September profit was the lowest in more than three years and the company said in early October that short-term prospects for its smartphones remained uncertain, as its sales are undercut by Chinese makers at the low end of the market and squeezed at the high end by Apple Inc.               
HitachiMaxell company left its net profit outlook at 6.75 billion yen and said it would pay a dividend of 31.5 yen for the first half after previously leaving the amount unclear. It also cut its full-year forecast by 7.8 percent to 154 billion yen.               
The company's shares closed 2.2 percent higher at 1,726 yen,  a level that was 16.6 percent lower than its offering price when it relisted in March. HitachiMaxell was spun off from Hitachi Ltd after becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary in 2010.               
Released: 2014-10-22T08:43:33.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam0077s
Laird's 3rd-quarter revenue rises as phone makers snap up components
79 words
22 October 2014
01:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 22 (Reuters) - Laird Plc, a British electronic components maker, said third-quarter revenue rose 6.4 percent, driven mainly by strong demand for products that improve mobile signal clarity and prevent smartphones from overheating.               
Laird, whose customers include Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, said trading was in line and its expectations for the full year remained unchanged.               
Released: 2014-10-22T07:40:55.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam006gs
 Prospects for American Detainees in North Korea Unclear After One Released
WSJ Blogs, 22 October 2014, 651 words, By Jonathan Cheng, (English)
The release of Jeffrey Fowle, the 46-year-old Ohio street maintenance worker detained in North Korea, is a victory for U.S. diplomats and good news for his wife and three children.
Document WCWSJB0020141022eaam000p1
 Laird's 3rd-quarter revenue rises as phone makers snap up components
Reuters, 01:40, 22 October 2014, 199 words, (English)
Oct 22 (Reuters) - Laird Plc, a British electronic components maker, said third-quarter revenue rose 6.4 percent, driven mainly by strong demand for products that improve mobile signal clarity and prevent smartphones from overheating.
Document WCLBA00020141022eaam0025w
UPDATE 1-Market Chatter-Corporate finance press digest - Oct 22
414 words
22 October 2014
00:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
(Adds item on Apollo Global)               
Oct 22 (Reuters) - The following corporate finance-related stories were reported by media:               
* The European Central Bank is considering buying corporate bonds on the secondary market and may decide on the matter as soon as December with a view to begin purchases early next year, several sources familiar with the situation told Reuters.                              
* Spain's oil company Repsol has been awarded with a tender to buy 1.4 million barrels of vacuum gasoil (VGO) from state-run Petroecuador with deliveries starting the first week of November, traders told Reuters on Tuesday.                              
* German engineering group Siemens is in advanced talks to sell its hearing-aids business for more than 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion), with private equity firm EQT the frontrunner, two people familiar with the matter said.                              
* Investment firm Strategic Value Partners (SVP) has again cancelled the sale of German packaging maker Kloeckner Pentaplast after receiving offers well below its asking price of 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion), several people familiar with the matter said.                              
* Australian investment bank Macquarie Group has bought Deutsche Bank's uranium book, a source familiar with the matter said, as the increasingly commodities-focused lender pushes deeper into global energy trading.                              
* German vehicles group Daimler is in advanced talks to take a minority stake in Italian motorcycle manufacturer MV Agusta, a source in Italy familiar with the situation said on Tuesday.                              
* Cheil Industries Inc, the de facto holding company for Samsung Group, plans for its IPO to be worth between 1.3 trillion won and 1.5 trillion won ($1.2 billion to $1.4 billion), a source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.                              
* Data storage products maker EMC Corp is buying much of Cisco System Inc's stake in their joint venture VCE, Bloomberg said, citing people with knowledge of the matter.                              
* BGC Partners Inc plans to make a hostile bid to buy rival GFI Group Inc for $675 million, after an effort to strike a friendly deal between the interdealer brokers foundered, the Wall Street Journal reported.                              
* Apollo Global Management LLC plans to start raising between $2 billion and $3 billion for a second natural resources private equity fund, sources familiar with the situation said, in the latest sign that the firm is doubling down on the U.S. shale boom.                              
For the deals of the day click on               
Released: 2014-10-22T06:55:45.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam0058w
PREVIEW-S.Korea Q3 GDP seen rebounding, but global woes pose risks
725 words
22 October 2014
00:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Advance estimate due at 8 a.m., Oct 24 (2300 GMT, Oct 23)
    * Reuters poll: Q3 GDP +0.9 pct q/q, +3.3 pct y/y
    * Economy recovering from Q2 shocks on consumption, trade
    * Pace of economic improvement still weak, but steady
    SEOUL, Oct 22 (Reuters) - South Korea's economy is expected
to have rebounded modestly in the July-September quarter after
slowing sharply in the previous three months, a Reuters survey
showed, but cooling global growth is expected to keep the door
open for further monetary policy easing.
    The economy probably grew 0.9 percent in the third quarter
from the second on a seasonally adjusted basis, thanks to
exports growth and an uptick in private consumption, picking up
from a 0.5 percent rise in the June quarter, according to 22
analysts surveyed in the Reuters poll. 
    Second-quarter growth was the weakest in nearly two years
while the economy expanded 0.9 percent in the first three months
of the year.
    Analysts say the second quarter likely marked a trough for
the South Korean economy, as an April ferry sinking left
hundreds dead and hit private consumption as the public eschewed
domestic travel and scaled back on spending.
    "After the Sewol sinking, demand has been improving although
at a slow pace. Capital investment, however, is what likely
hindered third-quarter growth the most as corporate sentiment
still remains weak," said Kim Hwan, an economist at NH
Investment & Securities.
    Some economists say another rate cut cannot be ruled out as
the outlook remains uncertain, highlighted by renewed tumult in
global financial markets on worries about slowing global growth.
 A cooling Chinese economy and the threat of recession in Europe
have raised doubts about global demand.
    "Further cuts are only possible if exports weaken or the
stock market derails from financial instability stemming from
U.S. monetary policy tightening," said Kim Jong-su, an economist
at Taurus Investment & Securities.
    "Domestic demand, however, is coming up from terrible levels
seen in the second quarter and will not worsen."
    Bank of Korea Governor Lee Ju-yeol said this week that
downside risks remain even to its downgraded forecast. The bank
has cut interest rates by 50 basis points in two moves this year
in order to boost growth momentum. 
    Exports were probably the saving grace for third quarter
growth as shipments rose 3.9 percent on an annual basis, which
was the fastest pace since a 4.7 percent rise in the fourth
quarter of last year.
    The economy also got a boost from the inauguration in July
of a new finance minister, who launched a series of measures to
prop up growth.
    On an annual basis, Asia's fourth-largest economy probably
expanded by 3.3 percent in the third quarter of the year, the
Reuters poll showed.
    Still, the central bank says the recovery is slower than
anticipated, and downgraded its growth forecast for this year
earlier in October to 3.5 percent from 3.8 percent, citing
weaker-than-expected improvement in the third quarter.
    
    Details of the survey (percent change):
 COMPANY                          *Q/Q     Y/Y
 Capital Economics                 0.8     3.2
 Daishin Securities                0.9     3.5
 DBS                               0.9     3.3
 Hana Daetoo Securities            0.9     3.6
 HI Investment & Securities        0.8     3.2
 HSBC                              1.0     3.4
 ING                               1.2     3.6
 JP Morgan                         1.0     3.4
 KB Investment & Securities        0.8     3.3
 Korea Investment & Securities     1.1     3.3
 KTB Investment & Securities         ~     3.3
 LIG Investment & Securities       1.0     3.7
 Moody's Analytics                 0.7     3.0
 NH Investment & Securities        0.8     3.2
 Samsung Securities                0.9     3.4
 Shinhan Investment Corp           0.8     3.2
 SK Securities                     1.0     3.3
 Societe Generale                  1.0     3.5
 Standard Chartered                0.9     3.2
 Taurus Investment & Securities    1.0     3.4
 Woori Investment & Securities     0.8     3.4
 Yuanta Securities Korea           0.9     3.3
 ________________________________  ___     ___
 High                              1.2     3.7
 Low                               0.7     3.0
 Median                            0.9     3.3
 * Seasonally adjusted
 ~ No forecast
 (Reporting by Sohee Kim, Kahyun Yang and Joonhee Yu; Writing by
Christine Kim; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
Released: 2014-10-22T06:39:19.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam00588
Corporate News: Corporate Watch
588 words
22 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B7
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   
GT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES
Agreement With Apple
allows Sale of Furnaces
GT Advanced Technologies has signed a pact with Apple Inc. for an "amicable parting of the ways," Luc Despins, attorney for the bankrupt supplier to the technology giant, said Tuesday in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New Hampshire.
Apple was involved in a $578 million financing arrangement that set GT Advanced up in the business of making the synthetic sapphire-screen material. Instead of GT Advanced's sapphire, Apple sent the new generation of iPhones out with screens made from a Corning Inc. material.
Mr. Despins said the proposed settlement allows GT Advanced to try to sell the furnaces at the Mesa, Ariz. sapphire-manufacturing facility, and give the money to Apple, which financed the equipment. GT Advanced would surrender its claims against Apple, under the deal, and agree not to disparage the technology giant, he said.
Mr. Despins said GT Advanced and Apple have agreed to file a revised explanation for GT Advanced's surprise bankruptcy filing as part of the pact, and ultimately erase from the public record the court papers that set out what went wrong in the relationship between the two companies.
An Apple representative couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Apple has filed papers under seal in the case.
-- Peg Brickley
---
EMC
Cisco to Sell Portion
Of Stake in VCE Venture
EMC Corp. plans to buy a portion of Cisco Systems Inc.'s stake in a joint venture company called VCE that sells computing gear to corporate customers, people familiar with the matter said.
EMC will pay Cisco a "de minimus" amount for the portion of its stake, one person said. Spokesmen for EMC and Cisco declined to comment.
EMC posted an alert Tuesday stating it would hold a call with news media Wednesday morning to discuss a "new business development."
VCE, an acronym that stands for virtual computing environment, was established in 2009 with investors that also included VMware Inc. and Intel Corp.
Bloomberg reported news of the transaction between EMC and Cisco earlier Tuesday.
-- Joann S. Lublin and Don Clark
---
SAMSUNG
NSA Approves Some
Mobile Devices
Samsung Electronics Co. said the U.S. National Security Agency approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker's struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs.
Samsung said on Tuesday that the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.'s Boeing Black phone.
-- Min-Jeong Lee
---
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Improved Sales Don't Rev
Up Profit for Bike maker
Harley-Davidson Inc. reported strong retail sales of its motorcycles and better-than-expected profit for the third quarter. World-wide retail sales at Harley dealers in the latest quarter grew 3.8% from a year earlier.
Despite the improved retail sales, Harley's profit fell 7.8% in the third quarter to $150.1 million, or 69 cents a share, down from $162.7 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue, including financial services, slipped 3.1% to $1.30 billion.
-- James R. Hagerty
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
Document J000000020141022eaam00031
EM ASIA FX-Stocks, ECB hopes support Asia FX; firm dollar limits gains
487 words
21 October 2014
23:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
* Won up on exporters, offshore funds
    * Rupiah eases on importers, traders book profits
 (Adds text, updates prices)
    By Jongwoo Cheon
    SINGAPORE, Oct 22 (Reuters) - Most emerging Asian currencies
edged up on Wednesday as regional stocks advanced and sentiment
improved, with the European Central Bank seen readying to launch
its plan to buy corporate bonds.
    South Korea's won gained on demand from exporters
for month-end settlements and as some offshore funds bought the
currency.
    Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose
nearly 1 percent, tracking higher U.S. stocks after
stronger-than-expected earnings from Apple Inc and
Texas Instruments Inc.
    Risk appetite improved as the ECB is considering buying
corporate bonds on the secondary market and may decide on the
matter as soon as December, several sources told Reuters.
 
    Emerging Asian currencies, however, failed to fully benefit
from strong equity performances and the ECB's stimulus plan as
the dollar broadly rose against a basket of major
currencies.
    "Any rebound in Asian currencies is unlikely to last long,"
said Jeong My-young, Samsung Futures' research head in Seoul.
    "Given differentials in economic fundamentals and interest
rates, the dollar's strong trend will sustain."
    
    RUPIAH
    The rupiah eased on dollar demand from importers for
month-end payments.
    Traders booked profits from gains in the currency, which on
Tuesday hit its strongest in about four weeks.
    The official Jakarta Interbank Spot Dollar Rate (JISDOR),
which the central bank launched last year in an effort to manage
exchange rate fluctuations, was fixed at 12,026 rupiah per
dollar, weaker than Tuesday's 11,993.
    
    CURRENCIES VS U.S. DOLLAR
    Change on the day at 0420 GMT
  Currency    Latest bid   Previous day    Pct Move
  Japan yen       106.92         107.00       +0.07
 *Sing dlr        1.2707         1.2715       +0.06
  Taiwan dlr      30.381         30.401       +0.07
  Korean won     1053.80        1054.70       +0.09
  Baht             32.32          32.27       -0.14
  Peso             44.78          44.75       -0.07
  Rupiah        12015.00       11995.00       -0.17
  Rupee            61.22          61.31       +0.16
 *Ringgit         3.2630         3.2630        0.00
  Yuan            6.1178         6.1212       +0.06
 
  Change so far in 2014
  Currency    Latest bid  End prev year    Pct Move
  Japan yen       106.92         105.28       -1.54
  Sing dlr        1.2707         1.2632       -0.59
  Taiwan dlr      30.381         29.950       -1.42
  Korean won     1053.80        1055.40       +0.15
  Baht             32.32          32.86       +1.69
  Peso             44.78          44.40       -0.86
  Rupiah        12015.00       12160.00       +1.21
  Rupee            61.22          61.80       +0.96
  Ringgit         3.2630         3.2755       +0.38
  Yuan            6.1178         6.0539       -1.04
 * Financial markets in Malaysia and Singapore are closed for
holidays.
 (Editing by Jacqueline Wong)
Released: 2014-10-22T05:44:25.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam004v3
Market Chatter- Corporate finance press digest - Oct 22
395 words
21 October 2014
23:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
Oct 22 (Reuters) - The following corporate finance-related stories were reported by media:
* The European Central Bank is considering buying corporate bonds on the secondary market and may decide on the matter as soon as December with a view to begin purchases early next year, several sources familiar with the situation told Reuters.
* Spain's oil company Repsol has been awarded with a tender to buy 1.4 million barrels of vacuum gasoil (VGO) from state-run Petroecuador with deliveries starting the first week of November, traders told Reuters on Tuesday.
* German engineering group Siemens is in advanced talks to sell its hearing-aids business for more than 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion), with private equity firm EQT the frontrunner, two people familiar with the matter said.
* Investment firm Strategic Value Partners (SVP) has again cancelled the sale of German packaging maker Kloeckner Pentaplast after receiving offers well below its asking price of 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion), several people familiar with the matter said.
* Australian investment bank Macquarie Group has bought Deutsche Bank's uranium book, a source familiar with the matter said, as the increasingly commodities-focused lender pushes deeper into global energy trading.
* German vehicles group Daimler is in advanced talks to take a minority stake in Italian motorcycle manufacturer MV Agusta <IPO-MVAG.MI>, a source in Italy familiar with the situation said on Tuesday.
* Cheil Industries Inc, the de facto holding company for Samsung Group, plans for its IPO to be worth between 1.3 trillion won and 1.5 trillion won ($1.2 billion to $1.4 billion), a source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.
* Data storage products maker EMC Corp is buying much of Cisco System Inc's stake in their joint venture VCE, Bloomberg said, citing people with knowledge of the matter.
* BGC Partners Inc plans to make a hostile bid to buy rival GFI Group Inc for $675 million, after an effort to strike a friendly deal between the interdealer brokers foundered, the Wall Street Journal reported.
For the deals of the day click on
For the Morning News Call-EMEA newsletter click on (1 US dollar = 0.7857 euro) (1 US dollar = 1,053.5100 Korean won) (Compiled by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore) 
Released: 2014-10-22T05:36:26.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam004v1
South Korean firms, unfazed by slowing economy, step up China investment
By Kazunori Takada and Sohee Kim   
647 words
21 October 2014
21:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.   
SHANGHAI/SEOUL, Oct 22 (Reuters) - South Korean firms have accelerated investment into China by a third this year, encouraged by improving diplomatic ties including a pending free trade deal.               
This expansion in China by South Korean companies is in sharp contrast to Japanese firms, which have been rapidly scaling back investment following a territorial dispute between Tokyo and Beijing two years ago and ongoing political spats.               
Japan's foreign direct investment into China is 43 percent lower so far this year from 2013 at $3.39 billion, while South Korea's FDI into China jumped 33 percent during the first nine months of the year to $3.23 billion.               
The South Korean investment surge comes as Beijing and Seoul strengthen diplomatic ties, hoping to wrap up free trade talks by year-end. Chinese President Xi Jinping and South Korean President Park Geun-hye have met five times since both took office last year and will hold another bilateral summit next month on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Beijing.               
In contrast, Xi has yet to meet Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe since both took power.               
Heavyweights such as Samsung Electronics Co Ltd  and Kia Motors Corp have powered the investment drive by expanding production facilities in China, with manufacturing accounting for about 90 percent of total South Korean FDI to China.               
But investment in the less capital-intensive wholesale/retail sector grew over 55 percent last year as consumer goods firms cashed in on a "Korean wave" fashion craze among younger Chinese for South Korean cultural products from music to cosmetics and clothing.               
"Since the South Korean market is very small, Korean companies have to go overseas to survive," said Hwang You-sun, deputy general manager at Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency (Kotra) in Shanghai.               
"Data has shown China's economy is weakening because of industrial restructuring but Korean companies consider China's internal demand to be big and thus are optimistic about the outlook."               
For example, Amorepacific Group Corp, South Korea's largest cosmetics maker, is expanding its production and R&D centre in Shanghai with a target to produce 13,000 tons  annually by 2020, or 10 times what it makes now, said Kim Seung-hwan, senior vice president of group strategy.               
South Korea is one of the few developed countries that has a trade surplus with China, its biggest export market.               
Samsung invested $7 billion to build a NAND flash memory factory in Xi'an in northwestern China, which began operations earlier this year, while South Korea's Kia Motors began production at its third factory in China early this year.               
Kia's parent Hyundai Motor Co, which already has three factories in Beijing, plans to build two more in China, sources told Reuters in September.               
While their contributions to South Korea's overall FDI to China remain a small fraction of the total, consumer companies have expanded their presence in China helped by the popularity of South Korean television dramas, especially among young Chinese.               
"The K-wave has been influential on Chinese and it makes Chinese emotionally closer to South Korea than Japan," said Ji-san Kim, an analyst covering South Korean makers of electronics and home appliances at Kiwoom Securities in Seoul.               
Cuckoo Electronics Co, a South Korean maker of high-end rice cookers and other appliances, is expanding its footprint in China, and will increase the number of self-branded stores in the country from 11 now to 20 by 2016. It also sells through 800 multi-brand retailers in China.               
"Thanks to the K-wave, Chinese have become familiar with Korean culture and Korean goods have a positive image," said Cheon Seung Kuk, who heads marketing at Cuckoo, an appliance maker.                              
Released: 2014-10-22T03:07:24.000Z
Document LBA0000020141022eaam001rx
 North Korean Escapee¡¦s Speech Draws Rare Attention in South Korea
WSJ Blogs, 21:34, 21 October 2014, 275 words, By Jeyup S. Kwaak, (English)
Firsthand accounts of repression and hardship in North Korea generally don¡¦t resonate much among the South Korean public, but a tearful speech by a North Korean refugee and activist is gaining traction on South Korea¡¦s news and social media ...
Document WCWSJB0020141022eaam0008d
Search Summary
 Textsamsung   DateIn the last 3 months   SourceReuters Newswires Or The Wall Street Journal - All sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectAll Subjects   IndustryAll Industries   RegionAll Regions   LanguageEnglish   Results Found1,625   Timestamp29 October 2014 3:21  
 Page 197 of 238     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.
 
 Page 1     ? 2014 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.
