<title:>By ROB HUGHES   
<Date:>23 July 2014
<Content:>
LONDON -- While politicians in Washington and London seek to strengthen economic sanctions against Moscow, FIFA and UEFA have no compunction about taking the Russian ruble.
The World Cup in Brazil is over, but the next one is already building. The finals will take place in Russia in 2018, and a new four-year sponsorship with Gazprom was signed and sealed in Sochi last September.
In addition, the UEFA Champions League, which arguably provides a more continuous and higher-profile presence on the world's television screens, is even more involved with the Russian energy giant.
Gazprom is one of the eight corporations who pay to be top-tier associates of the Champions League. The other seven -- Nissan, Heineken, MasterCard, Sony, UniCredit and HTC -- are afforded access to stadium advertising boards during games and branding at the compulsory post-game interviews.
More than that, Gazprom -- which the Russian government owns a majority of -- gets access that buys it even more prominence.
You might, for example, tune in to a British channel and be greeted by opening titles tying Gazprom to the UEFA Champions League. ''We Light Up The Football'' goes the slogan. And if any one of four teams -- Zenit St. Petersburg in Russia, Schalke 04 in Germany, Red Star Belgrade in Serbia or Chelsea in London -- is on the screen, you are can hardly miss the fact that Gazprom is either on the team's jersey or otherwise is an official sponsor.
It is all within the rules binding sports and commerce, which are, these days, full blood brothers. Gazprom owns only one club (Zenit) and therefore does not run afoul of the UEFA rule that was tightened years ago to prevent conflicting interests between cross-party ownership of competing teams in its leagues.
And when the Gazprom deal was consecrated with FIFA last fall, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia stood with Gazprom's chief executive, Alexei Miller, and the president of FIFA, Sepp Blatter, as they signed the official contract.
The deal, Putin pronounced, was ''important and noble.''
''Gazprom is not only the largest gas company in the world, but also one of the most passionate about football,'' Miller said. ''I am sure this cooperation will improve Gazprom's reputation and advance our brand awareness to a fundamentally new level on a global scale.''
There you have it. The Russians cut through the jargon that often seeks to camouflage the marriage of high finance and the global appeal of sports.
Only rarely do we actually glean what the cost of that association is.
FIFA and UEFA built their fortunes through global TV deals.
And though the two governing bodies tell everyone else how they should be regulated and how they should publish full accounts of their finances, their agreements with giant multinational companies are obfuscated in secrecy.
The balance sheets were somewhat opened in court eight years ago when MasterCard sued FIFA for breaking a long-term contract and signing with Visa instead -- after which MasterCard rebounded by signing a deal with the Champions League.
It was reported in Serbia that Red Star Belgrade's deal with Gazprom, which started in 2010, was worth about $3.8 million a year. The association with Schalke, which started in 2007 and was extended through 2017, is said to be worth seven times that.
Neither party in the Schalke deal disguised the fact that it had been brokered by politicians at a time when the club was facing financial difficulties and Russia was opening a pipeline beneath the Baltic Sea to serve Germany's energy needs.
The old adage of keeping sports out of politics (which was embedded in the tenets of FIFA, UEFA and the Olympics) has been made obsolete by the financial imperatives of modern times.
The Champions League sponsorship model closely follows FIFA's approach with the World Cup. The same businesses -- or very similar ones -- pay money to the ruling bodies. They include the top tier of household names, followed by other multinational companies who pay to be official suppliers or associates on a secondary level to the elite partners.
Adidas is the clothing manufacturer favored by both the World Cup and the Champions League, but that doesn't stop Nike from signing up as many top players as it can to endorse its shoes.
It is estimated that the official partners pay anywhere from $24 million to $44 million per year to be on billboards alongside FIFA's name.
Those sponsorship fees would go only part of the way for paying the transfer fee for a top player like James Rodr?guez, who is said to be moving from Monaco to Real Madrid after his stellar showing in the World Cup. But that acquisition is small change compared with the recent $400 billion gas deal between Russia and China.
So when people talk about obscene money skewing the sporting ideals of soccer, they are unfortunately not living in the real world. Sports, particularly soccer, are today an instrument of both business and politics.
It all gets a little tricky when French laws forbid certain logos or names of companies that violate the country's ban on alcohol advertising. But by and large, anything goes. Cash, as they say, is king. Take a look at Real Madrid once this summers's transfers are done. The lineup could include Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale, Karim Benzema and Rodr?guez up front, with Toni Kroos supplying some of the passes. ?ngel Di Mar?a, presumably, will be sold off to make room on the field as well as in the budget, as might Sami Khedira.
It is a multinational lineup, financed by a global marketing project that mirrors the business that is soccer.
