<title:>Corporate News: Corporate Watch
<Date:>28 April 2014
<Content:>
FOXCONN
Google Buys Several
Patents From Company
Foxconn, which assembles gadgets for companies such as Apple Inc., said it has sold a number of its communications technology patents to Google Inc. for an undisclosed sum.
Taiwan-based Foxconn, officially known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., made a name for itself in contract manufacturing by making Apple's iPhones and Sony's PlayStation game consoles. But few know the electronics manufacturer has been developing new technologies and has a sizable patent portfolio. In a statement, the company said it has applied for 128,400 patents and has been granted more than 64,300 patents world-wide.
In the highly competitive technology industry, companies are challenging each other to set industry standards, which has led to a few patent cases.
Foxconn said it would continue to invest in technology research and development, "transforming such investments into valuable intellectual-property assets." It declined to provide further details.
Google declined to provide comment.
-- Lorraine Luk
---
HONDA
Auto Maker Expects Weak
Yen Benefits to Taper Off
If Honda Motor Co.'s outlook for this year is any indication, the favorable effects of a weaker yen could soon taper off for big Japanese exporters.
The maker of Accord and Civic cars said Friday that it expected the strengthening of the yen to reduce its earnings in the fiscal year ending next March by 67 billion yen ($655 million). In the fiscal year just ended, Honda reaped a 289 billion yen pretax windfall from the weak yen.
The company expects its net income to rise 3.6% this fiscal year. But that is a significant slowdown from the just-ended year, during which net income rose 56%, to 574 billion yen, the company said Friday.
In its fiscal fourth quarter, which ended in March, Honda's net profit more than doubled to 171 billion yen, with sales growing to 3.1 trillion yen from 2.74 trillion yen.
The weaker yen, a pillar of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic-stimulus plan, helps exporters by increasing the value of foreign sales when converted into the Japanese currency. Honda said that last fiscal year the dollar averaged 100 yen, compared with 84 yen during the previous year.
-- Eric Pfanner and Megumi Fujikawa
---
PEARSON
Publisher Keeps Positive
Outlook With Higher Sales
Pearson PLC on Friday sounded an upbeat tone and reported a rise in first-quarter sales, as the U.K.-based publisher and education specialist prioritizes digital learning courses and expansion in emerging economies.
The company said sales in the first three months of the year, excluding those of book publisher Penguin Random House and corporate-news provider Mergermarket, rose 2% at constant exchange rates to GBP 900 million ($1.51 billion). Pearson owns 47% of its publishing joint venture with Bertelsmann SE & Co. Previously, it owned 100% of Penguin. Last November, it agreed to sell Mergermarket for GBP 382 million.
On a reported basis, sales fell 6% because of the strength of sterling against the U.S. dollar and emerging-market currencies.
The U.K.-based group, which said it was operating in line with expectations, didn't disclose profit figures.
News Corp, which owns The Wall Street Journal, competes with Pearson's publishing, business-news and education divisions.
-- Simon Zekaria
---
HTC
Design Chief Steps Down
From Smartphone Maker
HTC Corp.'s design chief will step down, as the Taiwanese smartphone maker's market share shrinks and its reorganization continues.
Scott Croyle was the key individual behind the company's latest flagship smartphone, the HTC One (M8), which has garnered favorable reviews for its sleek design since it was unveiled earlier this year.
Mr. Croyle will be focusing on "special projects" and "next-generation developments," HTC said in a statement Saturday.
A few years ago, HTC was the top seller of Android-powered smartphones.
But then it ran into marketing and operational problems. It fell out of the world's top-10 smartphone makers by volume last year, while competitors Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. -- as well as lower-cost Chinese rivals such as Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co. -- continued to gain ground.
HTC Chairwoman Cher Wang has taken a more active role in managing the company in an effort to reverse its slide.
-- Aries Poon
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
