<title:>By BRIAN X. CHEN and ELIZABETH A. HARRIS   
<Date:>17 January 2014
<Content:>
SAN FRANCISCO -- A slowing smartphone market and aggressive price-cutting by competitors have struck at the heart of Best Buy, the large electronics retailer.
The company on Thursday announced bleak sales during the all-important holiday season, sending its shares tumbling nearly 29 percent and sharply reversing momentum the company had gained in previous quarters. The shares gained in after-hours trading, rising 1.5 percent.
Best Buy's revenue was $11.45 billion during the nine-week period that ended Jan. 4. That was down from $11.75 billion during the holiday period a year earlier.
With many consumers using the Internet to compare prices in seconds, many retailers try to drive up unit sales by lowering prices. Those tactics by competitors are what Best Buy said hurt the company the most. Domestic comparable store sales fell 0.9 percent in the last quarter, compared with a year ago.
Hubert Joly, Best Buy's chief executive, said that the deep discounting among competitors made the company answer one question: ''Do we make the incremental investment necessary to be price-competitive and defend our market share?''
That answer was yes, but it did not result in higher sales, and Mr. Joly said the investment came with a higher-than-expected cost.
One particular weak spot was smartphone sales, which have slowed down across the industry.
Sharon McCollam, chief financial officer for Best Buy, said in the company's earnings call that part of the problem for mobile device sales was ''there was not as much newness.''
But on top of that, the pool of people buying smartphones for the first time is drying up. About 60 percent of American cellphone owners now have smartphones, according to the NPD Group, a research firm.
Qualcomm, one of the largest chip makers for mobile devices, warned last year that it expected soft performance in chip shipments because of an anticipated slowdown of sales in the high-end smartphone market. Incidentally, Samsung, the largest phone maker in the world, also reported a disappointing holiday quarter because of slowing profit growth from smartphone sales.
All those factors add up to the conclusion that the high-end smartphone market is becoming saturated in the United States, said Tero Kuittinen, a telecom analyst for Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm. That is why many cellphone manufacturers are looking into emerging markets overseas, like India, Brazil, Russia and China, to increase sales.
''People are scared this is really a sign of some deeper malaise of the high-end smartphone market,'' Mr. Kuittinen said.
Best Buy's executives said they were not ''shaken'' by the disappointing financials and expected things to turn around. But the overall slowdown of smartphone sales in the United States means Best Buy and other American electronics retailers could see softer results for the foreseeable future, maybe until a manufacturer like Apple or Samsung releases a big hit in a new category like wearable computers.
Best Buy's sales of Apple iPhones are still strong. About 12 percent of iPhones sold in the United States are through Best Buy, according to Michael R. Levin, a partner for Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, which tracks sales of Apple devices through different retail channels.
But Best Buy said one reason for the disappointing quarter was a shortage of some high-end phones -- presumably the iPhone 5S, which was in short supply for several weeks after its release. And sales of iPhones did not compensate for slow sales from competitors like HTC, BlackBerry and Nokia.
''Best Buy can't make a business out of selling Apple iPhones and Apple tablets,'' said Mr. Levin. ''You're not going to meet your expectations just doing that.''
Best Buy is just the latest company to release disappointing holiday results. Many companies reported little to no growth last year, and have lowered their profit forecast. Holiday earnings from some companies, especially Sears Holdings, have been dire. Sears reported that sales at its Sears locations in the United States dropped 9.2 percent over the same period the year before.
At Best Buy, Mr. Joly said holiday revenue was also hurt by slow customer traffic and a limited supply of other products. The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 game consoles were released for the holiday season, but many stores had trouble keeping them in stock, according to analysts.
The lone bright spot was Internet shoppers. Best Buy reported that comparable online sales during the holiday period were up 23.5 percent, accounting for $1.32 billion in revenue.
Shopping at a Best Buy in Overland Park, Kan., on Thanksgiving. The retailer was one of many that opened on the holiday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)   
