<title:>By KIT  EATON   
<Date:>27 February 2014
<Content:>
The Russian start-up Yota Devices will reveal on Monday the next generation of its unusual two-faced YotaPhone at the Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona. The phone stands apart from many of its smartphone peers -- which often appear similar to each other -- by having a conventional color touchscreen on one side and a low-power electronic paper display filling its other side.
The first dual-screen YotaPhone made a splash when it was revealed at the CES trade event in early 2013, winning compliments and awards. It went on sale in several European countries in December for a price equivalent to $675, and for $600 in Russia.
The next generation YotaPhone builds on the ideas of the first edition, in a thinner unibody shape with curved edges. It also has some better internal specifications, like a quad core processor and a 2 megapixel front-facing webcam. But its biggest new feature is that the rear electronic paper display has capacitative touch sensing built in, which means it's also a touchscreen.
While the color touchscreen on the front side is great for running typical Android phone applications and making calls, the new touch sensitive electronic paper display turns the YotaPhone into something that could rival devices like Amazon's Kindle e-readers. Electronic paper screens are often said to be favored by consumers who read e-books because they look more like printed paper and ink text.
Yota Devices points out that this display also makes the new phone suitable for slow-paced games like chess, sudoku or even for crossword puzzles. The company is releasing a software development package so that developers can write applications that make the most of both the phone's displays, including tricks like showing always-on health and fitness alerts or calendar notifications on the electronic paper screen.
Yota is promoting the phone on the strength of the device's unusual layout, pointing out that about 74 percent of the YotaPhone is useable screen versus the 30 percent to 40 percent of a typical smartphone. When the new device's battery is running low, it's also possible to use a ''Smart Power'' mode. This turns off the power-hungry color display and instead offers basic phone calling, messaging, email access and more via the rear electronic paper display. This is possible because this type of screen can consume less electrical energy than the color screens typically used on smartphones and tablets.
The next generation YotaPhone has a 5-inch, 1920-by-1080-pixel OLED screen on the front which is larger than the iPhone 5S's screen and rivals the display on leading Android phones like Samsung's Galaxy S4. The electronic paper screen is 4.7 inches in size and has 960 by 540 pixel resolution. This means both of the phone's displays are bigger in size and higher in resolutionthan the screens used on the first YotaPhone.
The chief executive of Yota Devices, Vladislav Martynov, confirmed during an interview that the new phone would go on sale for the same or slightly less than the cost of typical premium Android phones. This is the same strategy as used for pricing the first-generation YotaPhone, which will go on sale across more markets in Europe, the Middle East and CIS countries soon. The new device is expected to become available later in 2014.
Both YotaPhone devices will face fierce competition from Apple, Microsoft and Android smartphone makers like Samsung and HTC. These last two companies are expected to reveal a range of new devices at the MWC show this week, some of which will offer more features than YotaPhone. Apple is expected to release its next generation iPhone later in the year. And Microsoft is expected to produce more Windows phones after taking over Nokia's smartphone business. Mr. Martynov isn't fazed however, suggesting that ''So far there are no real direct competitors,'' to his phone, ''because no one offers a second always-on display.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
