<title:>By KATE MURPHY   
<Date:>24 November 2013
<Content:>
Christopher Kimball is the bow-tied and bespectacled chef and founder of America's Test Kitchen, which produces television and radio shows of the same name and publishes Cooks Illustrated magazine.
READING I just finished ''The Presidents Club,'' by Nancy Gibbs and Michael Duffy -- a top-notch explanation of the exclusive club that exists between past and sitting presidents. The Hoover section was best. He was persona non grata in the White House under F.D.R., but Truman called him immediately to solve the problem of starvation in Europe after World War II. ''Big Bucks: The Benoit Way,'' by Bryce Towsley, is one of those small treasures. It goes inside the world of Vermont's premier deer hunting family and how they track deer for days in the remote areas of Maine. They should have their own cable show. And ''My Lunches With Orson,'' conversations between Orson Welles and the director Henry Jaglom, was a fun, quick read. Orson Welles was the best luncheon companion in history since he dished a lot of great dirt.
LISTENING I'm addicted to BBC podcasts, including ''In Our Time'' with Melvyn Bragg. He investigates history through a three-expert panel, leading them to the truth about an era and away from their academic musings. He is a tyrant of the intellectual show -- pointed, smart and unyielding. My favorite podcast in the world, though, is ''Friday Night Comedy'' with Sandi Toksvig, who is Danish, gay and hysterical. It's a quiz show like ''Wait Wait ... Don't Tell Me!'' only five levels above. For music, it's either Brahms or the Grateful Dead, usually the latter.
WATCHING ''Sorcerer'' with Roy Scheider is a gritty 1970s film based on a French film from the 1950s. It's maybe the best movie of its kind ever made and nobody has heard of it -- except Quentin Tarantino, who has it on his top 10 movie list. ''Borgen,'' the Danish series about a female prime minister, is top-notch and like ''House of Cards'' only better, tougher. FOLLOWING I don't follow.
CALLING I have always been a huge fan of Apple products but the iPhone lost its edge in the last year. So I shifted to HTC. It's an exquisite object -- slim and gorgeous. It makes the iPhone seem clunky in comparison. And the operating system is just much better. It's more customizable. With Apple, it's like a designer did your whole house but won't let you change anything.
PICTURING The Fujifilm X100 is the best camera I have had in years. Photography was my chosen career, actually. Then I went to see a guy who was the director of photography at Family Circle. This was back in the late '60s. In an hour he convinced me it was a bad career move. He explained to me how it really worked. Like being a musician, if you're not in the top 1 percent, forget it.
HUNTING Rabbit hunting is my favorite winter pastime. A friend, a beagle and a sandwich, and we are out in the fields and woods all day.
Kate Murphy is a journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York Times.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY  RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)   
