<title:>By Joanna Stern   
<Date:>8 April 2014
<Content:>
Smartwatches? More like stupidwatches, you'll hear some say. They're just a desperate attempt by companies to create the next big thing to sell as smartphone innovation passes its prime.
Except that I do want more smarts on my wrist. No, I won't wear a camera or call people from a mini-smartphone strapped to my arm, which is what Samsung's larger Galaxy Gear smartwatch offers. But the company's Gear Fit has a much more sensible purpose, combining advanced fitness tracking with essential smartphone functions in a design I'd actually like to wear.
The $199 bracelet, which goes on sale this week, has a beautiful curved touch screen and uses Bluetooth to connect to one of 18 Samsung Galaxy phones or tablets. It puts text-message, email and other smartphone notifications on your wrist while logging your steps, heart rate and even your sleep patterns. All of that and it tells time.
But while the watch has the two ingredients I want most on my wrist -- fitness tracking and smartphone notifications -- it doesn't do either as well as I'd like.
Instead of a shrunken rectangular display, the Gear Fit has a long curved screen held in place by a rubber strap in your choice of color. About the size of a stick of gum, the bright display matches the contours of my wrist well and can be viewed from all angles, even -- if you crank up the brightness -- in direct sunlight.
Though it is easy to close the clasp without any help -- unlike, say, Fitbit's Force and Flex bands -- I didn't take the watch on and off all that much. And since it is water resistant, I even left it on in the shower. (Samsung says it can sit in a meter of water for about 30 minutes with no ill effect.)
In possibly a first for Samsung, Gear Fit's clean hardware design is matched with an uncluttered software interface. It lets you customize the homescreen with different watch faces and background colors. I stuck with the basic layout -- time plus daily step count -- but had fun changing the background color to match my outfit almost daily.
Swiping left or right provides a list of apps, including a stopwatch, notification center, pedometer and exercise tracker. You can customize the apps' order, and you can program the device's button to launch your favorite app. That button can also turn the display on, though the watch will wake up when you raise your arm to look at the screen.
While the Gear Fit offers plenty of fitness features, I can't help thinking Samsung has spread itself too thin. Over my 1 1/2 weeks of testing, I found that the watch measured some of my body movements as steps, counting more of them than the Fitbit Force and Jawbone Up24. Samsung says that all trackers are at least a little bit off but it is working to improve that functionality. (I couldn't test the sleep tracker because a software update was delayed.)
Unlike the others, Samsung does track runs, hikes and bike rides using the GPS in the paired device. But while I enjoyed being able to track my run's length and distance, finding that info in the S Health app was more exhausting than the run itself. The app doesn't compare with those from Fitbit and Jawbone, which are both very well designed and in tune with fitness needs.
The Gear Fit's built-in heart-rate monitor -- the feature that should win over the health nuts -- doesn't work well either. To get a reading, you must keep your arm perfectly still. (Warning: Attempting to do this during spinning class could cause you to nearly fall off your bike.) Yet even when I was quite stationary, the watch had a hard time finding my pulse.
Battery life also should be better. Pebble, the other well-known smartphone-paired smartwatch, can last between four and five days. Dedicated fitness trackers run up to six days on a charge. The Gear Fit -- which handles both jobs and has a bright screen -- gave me two days with smartphone notifications on and four with them off.
Charging the Gear Fit is a pain, too. You have to clip on an easy-to-misplace dongle that plugs into a micro-USB cord. The sportsbands also are annoying to charge. But unlike them, the Gear Fit lets you keep your phone stashed, putting notifications on your wrist. It worked seamlessly with Samsung's latest Galaxy S5 phone, and I liked being alerted to phone calls and text messages and being able to respond with short messages right from the watch.
There is little control over the alerts, however. If you get email and social notices on your phone, you'll get them on your wrist, too, along with a light vibration. Why can't I just be alerted about urgent emails or messages from specific people? Samsung isn't alone here. Pebble hasn't mastered custom wrist alerts either.
The Gear Fit marks significant progress in the wearable market and for Samsung. But for fitness, you'll have an easier time with the Jawbone Up24, which costs $50 less. There is smartwatch competition on the way from Motorola, LG, HTC and, if you believe the rumors, Apple. The Gear Fit may not be a fit, but I'm confident the perfect blend of smarts is a step closer to hitting my wrist.
---
You can write our columnist at Joanna.Stern@wsj.com and @joannastern on Twitter
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
