<title:>Hayley Tsukayama   
<Date:>27 March 2014
<Content:>
Facebook surprised just about everyone Tuesday by announcing that it will acquire Oculus VR, the maker of a prototype cutting-edge virtual-reality gaming accessory called the Oculus Rift. The product, gaming goggles of sorts that players put on to immerse themselves in the virtual world, is popular among leading-edge gaming geeks.
It's no surprise that Oculus was snapped up - the firm is leading even major companies such as Sony and Microsoft in the virtual-reality market, and it was perhaps only a matter of time before someone was willing to foot the bill to make the company its own. What is surprising is that Facebook was the one to do it.
Facebook is not exactly known for its gaming. That's not a failing on Facebook's part, necessarily, but early fans, including those who gave the company its start on Kickstarter, weren't shy about sharing their worries that Facebook would steer the firm away from gaming down the line. Facebook's track record on gaming, after all, has made for a shaky relationship with developers who blamed its waning support of Farmville maker Zynga for hurting social gaming.
Those skeptics probably weren't soothed by comments from Facebook indicating that although gaming will remain Oculus's main focus for now, it won't always be that way.
"Gaming is just the start. After games, we'll make Oculus a platform for other experiences," Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg told analysts in a call after the deal was announced. Oculus has the potential, he said, to be "the most social platform ever."
Gaining control over the next big computing platform - if the bet pays off - would be good for Facebook, Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia said in a note to investors Wednesday.
"We think the rationale is if Facebook can own the pipe, the platform or the operating system of the future, it will have much greater control over its destiny," he said.
Still, the Oculus acquisition stands out among other Facebook buys, particularly because it's hard to imagine Facebook could easily integrate Rift and its technology into its site. Zuckerberg typically buys fully formed companies and works them into Facebook's overall ecosystem - see Instagram, or even Beluga, which was the foundation for Facebook Messenger.
Oculus has yet to begin widely selling its headset, reserving it for developers who might be able to build games or apps that make it better. And it doesn't fit in Facebook's platform in an obvious way. Would people, for example, be willing to chat or spend any significant amount of time, even the duration of a basketball game, while wearing an immersive headset, especially when they're already wary of devices such as Google Glass and Oculus is still overcoming complaints about motion sickness?
And Zuckerberg noted that Facebook is no hardware company, and is in new territory when it comes to launching a physical gadget. The only piece of hardware that the firm has associated itself with was the HTC Cha Cha, which came with a Facebook button on the keyboard and quickly faded into obscurity.
He addressed that obvious weakness head-on, saying the social-networking company does not expect to make a profit from the devices anytime soon. Facebook, he said, wants to use its existing levers, such as its dominant role in the social world, to raise awareness and excitement about the product.
For Oculus, the appeal is clear: $2 billion and a promise that it can continue its roadmap exactly as it wants to. On Reddit.com, Oculus co-founder Palmer Luckey, 21, has been fighting a nearly constant stream of criticism with assurances that not much will change at Oculus. Luckey has said that while Oculus could have taken its vision to fruition on its own, the Facebook buy will let it take a more perfect product to market - whenever that may be.
He spent much of Tuesday evening and Wednesday trying to convince Rift's small but devoted followers that the deal does not make the firm a sell-out, reflect a move away from gaming, or indicate a data grab.
"Our relationship with the community is not going to change, and we are not going to spy on anyone," Luckey wrote in one comment on the site. "Feel free to rag on me if things turn out the way you predict, but you have my word that nothing will change for the worse."
Excerpted from The Switch, at washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch. 
WP20140327facebook0327
