<title:>By BEN SISARIO   
<Date:>30 April 2014
<Content:>
Spotify, the streaming music company, has struck a deal with Sprint to help market and promote its service, which offers millions of songs free and by subscription.
The deal, which the companies announced on Tuesday, gives Sprint's customers in the United States free access to Spotify's paid version for up to six months and further discounts for more than a year beyond that period. Spotify's paid plans, which give users perks like saving songs on mobile devices, normally sell for $10 a month. (The company also lets users listen free, with advertising.)
For Spotify, this ''bundling'' deal with a phone carrier is crucial in luring new paying customers. The service, which started in Sweden nearly six years ago and is now available in more than 50 countries, has emerged as the leading player in streaming music and is the music industry's newest hope as sales and paid downloads decline. Yet while it has caught on among early-adopting technology aficionados, its growth in the mainstream market has been slow, as Daniel Ek, Spotify's chief executive, acknowledged in an interview.
''In the U.S., Spotify is really strong on the coasts, but we've got to hit mainstream America,'' Mr. Ek said. ''With Sprint we feel we really have the opportunity to do that.''
What Spotify's deal with Sprint means for other companies in the world of streaming audio is unclear. Pandora Media has been by far the most popular such service, with more than 75 million users each month. Spotify has not revealed its usage numbers in more than a year, when it said that it had more than 24 million users, six million of whom paid for monthly subscriptions. One recent analyst report estimated that Spotify had about 2.5 million subscribers in the United States, and music industry executives estimate that it has somewhat fewer than 10 million subscribers around the world. Mr. Ek declined on Tuesday to reveal Spotify's current numbers.
While Pandora and Spotify represent different forms of streaming music -- Pandora is the leading Internet radio provider, while Spotify is an ''on demand'' service that allows users to pick exactly which songs to listen to -- the competition among such companies has grown intense. Last year, Apple entered the Internet radio market with iTunes Radio, and last month Samsung introduced a similar service, Milk Music; other companies including Amazon are said to be interested in streaming music as well.
To some degree, Spotify's deal with Sprint allows it to catch up to Beats Music, the latest big entrant to the subscription streaming market, which arrived in January with a deal with AT&T that also included free trial periods and a discounted family plan. AT&T has more than 110 million subscribers in the United States, while Sprint, whose majority owner is SoftBank Corporation, has about 30 million subscribers to its service. (Other Sprint phone brands, like Boost Mobile and Virgin Mobile, add 25 million or so to the company's total, but are not part of the Spotify deal.)
According to the announcement, Sprint customers with up to five ''framily'' members -- networks of friends and family -- can get Spotify subscriptions for $8 a month for a year and a half after the trial; those with six to 10 people can get it for $5 a month. After the 18-month discount period, Spotify will go for its regular price.
At Tuesday's news conference, Sprint's chief executive, Daniel R. Hesse, also unveiled a new phone handset with high-quality audio capabilities. The phone, the HTC One (M8) Harman Kardon Edition, is a joint project with the handset maker HTC and the audio company Harman International.
''This partnership was made possible by four C.E.O.'s who share a passion for music,'' Mr. Hesse said, standing with Mr. Ek of Spotify, Dinesh C. Paliwal of Harman and Peter Chou of HTC.
