<title:>Asia
What's News
<Date:>15 July 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Japan's private pension funds are turning away from the dismal returns offered on the country's government debt and instead buying higher-yielding assets.
China's post-office savings bank is seeking strategic investors ahead of a planned multibillion-dollar initial public offering in the next couple of years.
Goldman Sachs surprised Wall Street with a higher quarterly profit, as investment-banking revenue rose and a slump in trading results wasn't as bad as feared.
Hedge fund Oasis Management is raising pressure on a Taiwanese chip company to scrap its New York listing, the latest sign of activist pressure in Asia.
U.S. and U.K. regulators are nearing a deal with Lloyds to resolve investigations into the bank's alleged attempts to manipulate benchmark interest rates.
J.P. Morgan reported second-quarter profit that exceeded investor expectations as trading revenue held up better than the bank had forecast, sending shares higher.
Reynolds agreed to acquire Lorillard in a cash-and-stock deal currently valued at $25 billion.
NRG and JX Nippon Oil & Gas of Japan are planning to capture some of the carbon dioxide produced by a coal-burning power plant outside Houston and then pipe the gas to an oil field.
China's auto association, which is backed by the government, lowered its projection for sales of motor vehicles to 8.3% growth this year as the domestic economy continues to cool.
HTC's marketing chief is on sabbatical and the engineering chief has left his position, as changes continue among the top leadership of the struggling Taiwanese smartphone maker.
Novartis and Google are working on a smart contact lens that monitors blood-sugar levels and corrects vision in a new way.
World-Wide
A subway train derailed in Moscow during the morning rush hour, killing at least 21 people and injuring more than 100, in one of the deadliest incidents ever on the city's metro. It wasn't clear what caused the accident.
A small boat suspected of carrying about 80 Indonesian migrants sank off the coast of southern Malaysia, killing at least two people and leaving more than a dozen others missing.
Iraq's parliament elected a new speaker, in a first step toward forming a government that can take decisive action to resolve the nation's security crisis.
Security forces and protesters clashed at an opposition rally in Cambodia's capital, leaving about 40 people injured. Several opposition lawmakers were detained.
