<title:>By STUART ELLIOTT   
<Date:>31 March 2014
<Content:>
Accounts
?¡V? The Gap division of Gap Inc., San Francisco, selected the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy as its lead global creative agency. Spending has not yet been determined. Gap had not had an agency assigned to worldwide creative tasks since late 2012.
?¡V? HTC North America, Bellevue, Wash., part of HTC, returned its creative account to Deutsch L.A., the Los Angeles division of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, which the company left last year to begin working with the Los Angeles office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. Spending has not been determined. The first new work from Deutsch L.A. includes a commercial for the HTC One (M8) smartphone with the actor Gary Oldman.
?¡V? Meijer, Grand Rapids, Mich., which operates 204 supermarkets and supercenter stores throughout Michigan and four other states, named Doner Media, Southfield, Mich., part of the Doner division of MDC Partners, its media agency of record. Spending was estimated at more than $30 million. The account was previously handled by Empower MediaMarketing, Cincinnati.
?¡V? The Israel Ministry of Tourism hired The Woo, Los Angeles, as its advertising agency of record for North America. Spending was estimated at $10 million. The account was previously handled by Bodden Partners, New York; Bodden or one of its principals had worked on the account for more than 20 years.
People
?¡V? Bob Winter joined VSA Partners, Chicago, as partner and executive creative director, and will work with Jim Toth, executive creative director, as both become co-executive creative directors of the consumer marketing practice. Mr. Winter had been executive creative director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, based in Miami.
?¡V? Donna Speciale, president for Turner entertainment and animation advertising sales, based in the New York office of the Turner Broadcasting System, was named president for Turner ad sales as Turner Broadcasting undergoes a revamping that combines its television and digital sales operations. Greg D'Alba, who was president for news and Turner digital ad sales, is leaving, the company said. Turner Broadcasting is part of Time Warner.
?¡V? Nick Hines, executive vice president at Engine Shop, New York, will move to San Francisco to lead a new office and oversee the agency's West Coast operation.
?¡V? Laura Levitan joined the W2O Group as its first chief networking officer, based in the Atlanta office and working on behalf of its three agencies: BrewLife, Twist Mktg and WCG. Ms. Levitan has worked for agencies that include Clarion Marketing and Communications and MRY.
Miscellany
?¡V? Team Detroit, part of WPP, created a video clip for the Ford C-Max hybrid, sold by Ford Motor, that parodies ''Poolside,'' a commercial for the Cadillac ELR plug-in hybrid, introduced during the Winter Olympics, that has generated a lively debate over whether it celebrates the American work ethic or is jingoistic. The commercial for the Cadillac division of General Motors -- created by Rogue, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies -- features the actor Neil McDonough playing a wealthy-looking character extolling, with a smile, the virtues of Americans who work harder than citizens of other countries. The parody video features Pashon Murray of a sustainability organization, Detroit Dirt, who delivers a speech that spoofs the Cadillac ad by praising residents of other countries who buy ''locally grown food'' and promoting efforts by anyone to ''try to make the world better.''
?¡V? Advertising spending in the United States rose 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with the same period of 2012, according to a report by the Kantar Media unit of WPP. For the full year, ad spending increased 0.9 percent compared with 2012, Kantar Media reported, making 2013 the fourth consecutive year that American ad spending rose from the previous year as Madison Avenue continued to recover from the financial crisis. Media that gained ad revenue last year, according to Kantar Media, included Internet display ads, up 15.7 percent; cable television, up 7.3 percent; outdoor products, up 4.4 percent; and consumer magazines, up 2.6 percent. Media that lost ad revenue last year, Kantar Media reported, included network radio, down 15.9 percent; local radio, down 4.1 percent; smaller newspapers, down 3.8 percent; and national newspapers, down 3.6 percent. Procter & Gamble remained first among all American advertisers, spending $3.2 billion last year, Kantar Media said, up 11.8 percent from 2012.
?¡V? Campfire, New York, a creative agency founded by the producers of ''The Blair Witch Project,'' was acquired by SapientNitro, Boston, a division of Sapient. Financial terms were not disclosed. Campfire, known for campaigns with entertainment elements and ads for entertainment brands like Cinemax and HBO, will operate as a unit of SapientNitro.
?¡V? FleishmanHillard, New York, and Kroll, New York, the risk-management company, formed an alliance to offer a service focused on cybersecurity and mitigating the risk of data breaches. FleishmanHillard will handle tasks like crisis management and reputation recovery and Kroll will handle tasks like enterprise network security and threat detection.
?¡V? WPP, London, agreed to make three acquisitions, all for undisclosed financial terms. In one deal, made through its WPP Digital and Wunderman units, WPP will acquire a majority stake in Cognifide, London, a digital technology consultancy. The other two deals involved companies based in Shanghai: the Shanghai Egift Design and Production Company, specializing in loyalty programs, which WPP will acquire through its JWT unit, and the XMKT Group, a marketing services agency that specializes in customer experience management.
?¡V? Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, introduced a specialty offering, AIM Sports Reputation Management Service, intended to provide university and professional athletic programs with help in areas like ethics and brand management. AIM will work with Curry, Wellborn & Battcher, whose partners include Bill Curry, the former football player and coach.
?¡V? JVST, San Francisco, a digital advertising agency, was acquired by the CHR Group, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. JVST will operate as an autonomous unit of CHR.
?¡V? Mood, S??o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, sold a majority stake to the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Augusto Cruz Neto will retain what was described as a significant minority stake in the agency and continue as its president.
?¡V? Cemusa, the outdoor advertising unit of FCC, a Spanish construction company, is being sold for 80 million euro to JCDecaux, Paris, a leading outdoor advertising company. Cemusa operates in five countries -- Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Spain and the United States -- and designs, builds, installs and maintains outdoor ad platforms like bus shelters.
?¡V? Advertising revenue for movie theaters last year totaled $678 million, up 6.5 percent from 2012, according to the Cinema Advertising Council. The organization also said that it planned to introduce a trade campaign that would carry the theme ''Movies never get old.''
?¡V? Advertising spending in media aimed at gay men and lesbians was $381.4 million last year, up 18.2 percent from 2012, according to the annual Gay Press Report from Rivendell Media, Mountainside, N.J.
