<title:>By Eva Dou   
<Date:>4 March 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI -- Apple Inc. is hiring hundreds of engineers and supply-chain managers in China and Taiwan as it attempts to speed product development and introduce a wider range of devices.
The Cupertino, Calif., company is hiring engineers from rival smartphone maker HTC Corp. and other Taiwanese technology firms to build up teams in Shanghai and Taipei, people familiar with the matter said.
The hiring push reflects Apple's need for more engineers to work with Asian suppliers on developing components for iPhones and iPads as it plans for faster and more-frequent product releases. Apple also is increasing its number of supply-chain managers, following criticism over factory conditions at some of its suppliers.
Apple has added several hundred engineers and operations staff in China since mid-2013, people familiar with the matter said. The total number of engineers and operations staff in China now exceeds 600, they said. Apple declined to give figures on its China staff.
Apple in August used the professional-networking website LinkedIn to reach engineers at HTC and Taiwanese suppliers Inventec Corp. and Quanta Computer Inc., among others. "Apple is building an engineering team in Taipei to drive new iPhone product development," Apple said in a recruiting email.
The company also has been hiring for its main Asian base in Shanghai, where it moved into a new three-building complex last year, people familiar with the matter said.
The company is juggling more projects than ever against the industry's shortening product cycle. Apple is trying to fend off competition from low-cost phones using Google Inc.'s Android operating system by introducing more devices. Apple's share of the global smartphone market fell to 17.9% in the fourth quarter from 20.9% a year earlier, according to IDC.
Last year's release of the iPhone 5S and 5C marked the first time Apple introduced two smartphone models at once. The company has been working with component suppliers in Asia to make two larger-screen iPhones this year.
Core research and development will remain in Cupertino, the people familiar with the matter said. But new positions in Greater China span a wide range, from working with suppliers on hardware development for touch screens and cameras, to electrical engineering and software quality assurance, according to Apple job postings. The company has grown globally. It had 80,300 full-time employees, according to its annual report in September, up from 72,800 a year earlier.
---
Daisuke Wakabayashi contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
