<title:>RPT-CORRECTED-Apple's sales boom in communist Vietnam
<Date:>24 April 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG¡XChina Mobile Ltd., the world's largest mobile carrier by subscribers, posted a 9.4% decline in first-quarter net profit Tuesday as intensifying competition and handset subsidies for Apple Inc.'s iPhones hurt its profitability.
China Mobile has long had a dominant share in the Chinese mobile market, with more than 770 million subscribers. But it is now under pressure from smaller rivals China Telecom Corp. and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., which are offering high-speed data services at attractive prices.
Those rivals operate on mobile-technology platforms that are widely used globally, which gives them access to more popular and speedy third-generation smartphones. The two companies have sold iPhones for several years.
China Mobile, however, has been dependent on homegrown 3G technology, which is compatible with fewer handsets. To maintain its dominant position, the company plans to double its capital spending to $12 billion this year to build a speedier 4G network. Apple and other major smartphone makers including Samsung Electronics Co., Sony Corp. and HTC Corp. already make phones to support this 4G standard.
China Mobile added 1.34 million 4G users in February, of which about one million were new iPhone users, Chief Executive Li Yue told The Wall Street Journal last month. The company said Tuesday it added 1.45 million 4G users in March, but it didn't give a breakdown of iPhone users.
China Mobile's net profit for the three months ended March 31 fell to 25.24 billion yuan ($4.04 billion) from 27.88 billion yuan a year earlier. Revenue rose 7.8% to 154.83 billion yuan from 143.63 billion yuan a year earlier.
A new generation of smartphone applications that allow users to send free voice and text messages was a drain on the company's traditional mobile revenue, however, new mobile revenue from data and multimedia content services rose.
Analysts expect China Mobile's hefty investments in its mobile-network upgrades and higher handset subsidies to continue to weigh on its earnings. China Mobile started offering iPhones on its new 4G network in January and the company expects this addition to ratchet up the subsidies it dishes out for all models of phones by 31% this year.
The company's results contrast with the increase in first-quarter earnings reported by China Unicom, which continues to gain market share in the world's largest mobile market by subscribers.
The Chinese government has introduced measures to help smaller carriers including China Unicom and China Telecom, which reports earnings next week.
One such measure will allow China Unicom to benefit from lower interconnection fees that the company pays for calls to China Mobile's network, beginning this year. Analysts said the savings from the interconnection policy will help fund China Unicom's network upgrade and marketing efforts to further increase its mobile users this year.
China Mobile controlled 62% of the mobile market in China as of the end of February. China Unicom had a 23% market share and China Telecom had 15%.
