<title:>BRIEF-Taiwan's HTC consolidated revenue in May down 27.4 pct
<Date:>3 June 2014
<Content:>
Corrections & Amplifications
Adap.tv was misspelled as Adapt.tv in a Page One article on Tuesday about invisible video ads. Also, the name of video tech firm Mixpo was incorrectly given as Mixpoand.
(WSJ May 28, 2014)
(END)
The website USFunVideos.com is unremarkable in most respects, displaying snapshots of outdoor scenes and cooking videos. But recently the site contained something else: several tiny websites, smaller than a needlepoint.
These tiny sites, each the size of a single pixel on a computer screen, carried little content. But each served up ads, videos too small to see with the naked eye.
And the array of big advertisers -- such as JP Morgan Chase, Coca-Cola Co.'s Minute Maid orange juice and smartphone maker HTC Corp. -- were charged every time someone clicked on USFunVideos.com, and the tiny sites played the ads that couldn't be seen.
The sleight of hand is the kind of problem that ad executives and security firms say is now widespread across the Internet. Lured by the promise of advertising they could be sure was being seen by the right people, marketers are now contending with a deep bag of tricks that includes Web-crawling robots, server-based "drone pools" and the pixel-size video sites that has them paying for dubious Internet traffic.
Wenda Harris Millard, president and COO of the ad consultancy Medialink, estimates that as much as 25% of online ad revenue is wasted on fraud and piracy. Similarly, a February report from audience-research firm comScore found that 36% of online ad impressions, or views, are generated by nonhumans.
Video ads, fast rising in popularity, have become particularly vulnerable to fraud. In December, 188.2 million Americans watched a total of 52.4 billion videos, according to comScore. A year earlier, 181.7 million viewers consumed 39 billion videos. With figures like that, the commercial-like video format has become irresistible to traditional advertisers such as Coca-Cola, McDonald's Corp. and General Motors Co.
One calculation, by eMarketer, estimates that Web video ad spending will roughly double to $8.04 billion by 2016. Most of that money goes to top video sites like YouTube, Yahoo and Hulu as well as online sites of TV networks.
But a number of other, obscure players are surreptitiously getting in on the action.
Consider the path taken by one of the invisible ads that ended up on USFunVideos. The rogue ads were initially discovered by Vindico, an advertising-technology company that helped the Journal identify several shrunken sites. While the companies confirmed that their ads weren't supposed to be on USFunVideos, none of them had been aware of the breach.
A spokesman for JP Morgan Chase acknowledged the company inadvertently paid for the spots to appear. A spokesman for HTC said its media agencies have "robust monitoring solutions in place" to guard against fraud. A Minute Maid spokeswoman said that "known fraud is automatically stripped out" of ads counted, and billed, to the company.
As for USFunVideos, it is registered to Malcom Dawn of Malaga, Spain, according to the domain tracking site Whois.com. A person answering the phone number listed on the account said they didn't know Mr. Dawn.
According to HTC's own findings, its ad traveled through three middlemen, including the ad network OneScreen and the ad-buying tech company TubeMogul. Eventually, it landed on one of the shrunken sites on USFunVideos, where no one could see it. (See how video ad fraud can happen in an interactive graphic.)
TubeMogul CEO Brett Wilson says the firm quickly blocked the site from its ad chain, and refunded HTC less than one dollar for 53 fake views. OneScreen didn't return several phone calls seeking comment.
JP Morgan Chase placed its ad through AOL Inc.'s Adapt.tv, but the spot subsequently was handed off to three more firms before it ended up on USFunVideos.
"It's always a big deal when advertisers can't control where their ads end up in the supply chain," says Mike Turcotte, a senior vice president at Zenith Media, which handles JP Morgan Chase's online advertising. He said that the USFunVideos incident represented a small amount of the bank's total ad budget but declined to give any figures, or say whether the bank had been reimbursed for the fraud.
The ads are lucrative. A video ad on a niche website or blog can command as much as $30 per thousand views, compared with 20 cents for static display ads for the same amount of traffic, estimate industry executives.
That helps to explain why fraudsters are deploying a variety of tactics, including embedding invisible sites within sites to exaggerate page views and gin up fake traffic.
By hiding behind bogus domain registrations, masking their digital tracks and working out of hard-to-trace regions, perpetrators are extremely difficult to catch.
Harvard Business School Professor Ben Edelman says the online ad world is doing a poor job of policing itself. "Businesses are absolutely getting screwed," says Mr. Edelman, who also serves as a paid consultant to companies combating ad fraud. "If you were selling barrels of excellent apples, you should be furious if some guy is out there selling barrels of rotten apples," he says.
Historically, online advertising has been driven by what people in the industry refer to as "direct response" ads that urge viewers to take an action with messages like "Click here to sign up for a credit card" or "Win a free iPad!"
With people consuming more video on the Web, motion ads are attracting more traditional "brand advertisers" -- from clothing designers to car companies. Their video promos are less about generating an immediate sale than honing an image or value, much like a television commercial. In some cases, marketers are running the same ads created for TV online, shifting more ad spending from the tube to the Web in the process.
As more of their ads migrate online, traditional marketers may be ill equipped to deal with potential fraud. That is because TV and print advertisers are mostly concerned about getting their ads seen by the right demographic groups. And they commonly deal directly, via phone and fax, with sales reps from media companies to place their spots.
Web advertisers, conversely, use automated software to purchase ads via exchanges, networks and other middlemen -- a process that leaves less transparency as to where an ad will actually end up. Traditional advertisers, therefore, may be less savvy about navigating these channels.
For example, an ad can start with an established ad exchange, which sells it off to a less well-known firm, which ultimately sends the ad to a shell website -- an action that takes place in the blink of an eye, with little, if any screening. Many of these transactions are automated, so exchanges aren't even aware of what companies are buying what inventory.
Under this type of system, "there is no transparency guaranteed," says Jeff Lanctot, a former ad executive and CEO of the video tech firm Mixpoand. "Some percentage of the sites [advertisers buy] are not visited by humans, but by bots," or web robots programmed to visit many sites at once and mimic human views.
Some industry veterans believe that the middlemen have little incentive to shut down fraud since the more transactions they handle the more money they make. "Everyone along the chain makes money," says Tom Phillips, CEO of Dstillery, a marketing technology company. "More volume, more money."
Advertisers and agencies are "under pressure to deliver a certain volume for a campaign at a certain price," adds Mr. Lanctot. "Banning multiple providers may hinder those attempts. So fraud is tolerated."
Some ad exchanges dispute this assessment. Rather than turning a blind eye to fraud, they say they are fighting it.
"Adapt.tv is focused on the long term-strategy of building an industry where brands and agencies can safely and securely invest their media dollars -- and not on short-term revenue," says a spokesman for Adapt.tv, which was acquired last year by AOL.
One video ad exchange, called Spotxchange, says it uses various filtering technologies to root out scams. The company says it ends up blocking 10% to 15% of the ad inventory the company handles. "We invest a lot of money in multiple technology vendors and dedicated staff to monitor our video ad inventory," says CEO Michael Shehan. "But fraud literally steals money from legitimate publishers, so it's worth the investment."
Tactics are evolving. For instance, investigators say that fraudsters are now renting giant servers with the capacity to mimic millions of personal computers. Known as cloud computers, they can be deployed across hundreds of websites to trick advertisers into paying for fake visitors.
A shift to cloud computing may also be fueling an expansion of fraud into video ads, some researchers say. Cloud-based "drone pools," as the latest schemes are dubbed, perform more reliably for the scammers than an army of PCs that have been infected with viruses. These drone pools, say researchers at security firm MdotLabs, can't be switched off by users with antivirus software, meaning the bots will carry on.
Mr. Edelman -- whose office sits in Harvard's serene Baker Library, which featured an exhibit on "The Art of American Advertising, 1865-1910" on a recent morning -- says he has seen other miniaturized websites like USFunVideos running what are essentially invisible ads. In one case, he estimates, the ads had gone through nine different exchanges, ad networks and other third parties.
Part of a growing cadre of ad-centric Internet-security consultants, the professor works with paying clients such as Microsoft, eBay and Verizon. He says he has built a series of Web crawlers that scour the Web, taking screenshots of ads that end up in unsavory places.
He claims he is able to discern patterns by reading the data contained in Web addresses, so that he can tell what any specific ad is supposed to look like. And with that information, he says he can follow a company's ads wherever they go -- including places that advertisers didn't intend for them to land.
Multiple computers aid him in his quest, some deliberately loaded up with viruses and adware, and others that are "clean." He instructs his bots to venture out across the Internet to check out suspicious websites.
Mr. Edelman, who rides his bike to Harvard every day, keeps a list on his wall of companies he has targeted. Some firms are crossed out, indicating the professor's efforts to expose their misdeeds. After naming names on his blog, one company on the list called the Harvard Business School dean to complain. The dean's office confirmed the phone call but declined to comment.
Identifying specific people behind online fraud is another problem entirely. Perpetrators are experts at hiding their digital tracks, and many operate outside the U.S.
The law is also somewhat murky in the area. While it is illegal to manipulate another person's computer, for example, other illicit activity is less cut and dry, says Alan Chapell, founder of Chapell & Associates, a law firm specializing in the ad business. "A lot of ad fraud, such as fake sites and fake traffic, are difficult to prove," he says. "If you're a regulator, you really look for slam dunks. Grey areas are sort of hard."
U.S. law enforcement actions suggest at least some of the activity is coming from Eastern Europe. Last year, for instance, two men from Estonia pleaded guilty in U.S. federal court for taking part in a $14 million case involving online ad fraud schemes, according to federal prosecutors.
In the case of USFunVideos, the site itself doesn't list any contact information for its principals.
Digging deeper, Mdot's team discovered a company domain name associated with the site. That domain, oneemedia.com, redirects to Mojhosting.sk, a Slovakian domain-registration company. Researchers at Mdot were unable to find any information about oneemedia, which lists no contact information.
Even as more cases of fraud are discovered, many think that the battle against the scammers, with their ever-changing arsenal of tricks, is unlikely to end soon.
"Anytime you have a scheme and start to close one door, there's another door that opens," said Elias Manousos, chief executive of security firm RiskIQ. "Especially when there's this kind of money on the line."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
