<title:>By Geoffrey A. Fowler   
<Date:>26 March 2014
<Content:>
Corrections & Amplifications
Jeong Ho Kim teaches at Northern Illinois University. The Personal Journal column on Wednesday incorrectly identified the school as Northeastern Illinois University.
(WSJ March 27, 2014)
(END)
You should probably get a bigger phone.
I plan to step up this year to a screen that measures at least 4.7 inches in diagonal, from the 4-inch iPhone I use today. With smartphones, even a little increase is a big deal.
We used to laugh at Gordon Gekko's giant cellphone in "Wall Street," but handset makers are back to supersizing phones -- or at least their screens. The Sony Xperia Z Ultra is about the size of an "XL" Hershey's bar, with a 6.4-inch screen. In the past year, the "phablet" has gone from a joke to a best-seller.
But what's the ideal size?
I tested a dozen phones and consulted ergonomists, physical therapists and countless pants pockets. It turns out, there is some science to figuring out what screen size might best serve you, and three factors that matter most: What you can see, what your thumbs can reach and what you can comfortably hold.
The tricky part: "It's all trade-offs," says Jack Dennerlein, a professor of ergonomics at Harvard and Northeastern University.
If screen size hasn't yet been a significant factor in your phone choices, it likely will be this year. Apple's iPhone 5S now has one of the smallest screens you can buy on a state-of-the-art smartphone, but Apple reportedly has considered two new larger models, one with a screen larger than 5 inches. Meanwhile, HTC this week upped its flagship One (M8) to 5 inches, while the latest edition of Samsung's already spacious Galaxy phone grew by a 10th of an inch.
Why go bigger at all? You can get more done with more screen.
One study published in 2011 found that people reading privacy policies on 3.5-inch iPhones comprehended only about half of what they read compared with people reading on a desktop computer monitor. That's like reading every other sentence of this column.
And reading, shopping and playing games -- as opposed to talking -- are what we're doing with our phones more than ever before. In December, Americans spent an average of 34 hours using apps and browsing websites on their phones -- six hours more than a year earlier, according to research firm Nielsen. That is far more time than we spend holding them up against our faces to make calls.
Big screens are also better because, when it comes to touch screens, we all have fat fingers. Northeastern Illinois University's Jeong Ho Kim and others studying tablets have found a correlation between typing speed and size of virtual keys. Every millimeter matters. Swap a 4-inch iPhone for a 4.7-inch Moto X and the keys go from 4 millimeters to 5 millimeters -- that's 25% wider.
I might advise just getting the largest screen you can find were it not for a limiting factor: our thumbs. Our Darwinian ancestors used their smallish thumbs to swing from vines, but we use our bigger ones to navigate around screens.
As screens get bigger, it becomes harder for a thumb to reach all of that real estate. A 2012 study found that thumbs performed far better on smaller phones.
Phone makers know they are pushing the capabilities of our digits, and have moved most of the important stuff in an OS away from the top of the screen toward the bottom. And when Apple unveiled its longer iPhone 5 screen, which measures 4 inches diagonally, it touted that a thumb could reach the whole thing.
But not all thumbs are the same.
My thumbs are about average for a man (7 centimeters), and sure enough, I can sweep across almost all of an iPhone screen, but I can only reach about a third of that giant Sony's screen.
My very tall colleague Adam, who has 9-cm thumbs, can reach half the Sony screen. You can see how your thumbs measure up on different screen sizes in our online Wall Street Journal Hand-o-Meter.
If you're in a store, test phones by loading a drawing app such as the one at Awwapp.com, which works in a Web browser. Hold the phone comfortably with one hand and draw an arc with your thumb, like a windshield wiper. That's how much of the screen your thumb can comfortably reach.
Some people don't mind stretching. My friend Dora, who uses her phone more than anybody I've met, got thumb cramps when she first shifted to a 5-inch screen, but now she says she's used to it. (This ailment dates back to "Nintendo Thumb," and centuries before with something called "Baker's Thumb.") It's also socially acceptable to type two-thumbed -- and we all know two windshield wipers are better than one.
All these yoga-hand contortions we make to compensate for our limited thumbs impact the final factor in phone size: how well you can hold it.
Weight, texture and grip are subjective, and really require you to put in some work at the phone store. A plastic or leather texture can make even a larger phone easier to hold than a smaller one with a slippery glass or metal back. Some phones now have slightly curved backs to help cradle them. The thickness of the phone will also impact how you hold it.
And the bigger the screen, the more battery power a phone needs, but with more surface area behind that screen you might not even notice.
There are some physiological limits to what a human hand can securely grip, though. One key measurement is the distance between the base of your thumb and the middle knuckle on your index finger.
"The [middle] knuckle is a little less stable," says Alan Hedge, a professor in the Department of Design and Environmental Analysis at Cornell University. Much of our understanding of phone grips comes from gun grips. "The military has done the best work on hand anthropometry," Mr. Hedge says.
Even if our phones aren't weapons, grip is important: The 4.7-inch Moto X feels more secure in my hand than the 5-inch Nexus 5. As someone who rides a bumpy subway, I'll take any help I can get to keep from cracking another screen.
Then there is the problem of where you keep your phone. Women with handbags, in my experience, have fewer concerns about storage. But if you always stick your phone in your pocket, then you should wear your skinniest pair of jeans to the phone store. If your phone won't fit, there's always a belt clips for that.
"When we buy gloves, we usually try them on to see if they'll fit our hands, but this basic step seems to be missing from the process of choosing a smartphone, where we tend to focus on the 'wow factor,'" says Ira Janowitz, an ergonomics consultant who lectures at University of California, Berkeley.
As phones get bigger, the thing that won't change is the capability and limits of human hands. So let them be your gadget guide.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
