<title:>
<Date:>WSJ Blogs, 17:43, 11 July 2014, 740 words, By Lizette Chapman, (English)
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XThe launch of new flagship and midrange phones, cost cutting and disposal of assets helped HTC Corp. swing back to a profit in the second quarter, but the Taiwanese smartphone maker is still not out of the woods yet.
HTC on Thursday reported a net profit of 2.26 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$75.6 million) in the second quarter, up 80% from the same quarter in 2013 and better than a net loss NT$1.88 billion in the previous quarter. A survey of 16 analysts by Thomson Reuters forecast the second-quarter net profit would average NT$2.09 billion.
The Taoyuan-based smartphone maker also posted an operating profit of NT$2.43 billion, the first after three consecutive quarters of operating losses.
But revenue barely met the company's guidance, which shows it is still struggling to match sales with Samsung Electronics Co. and low-cost Chinese competitors. In the three months ended June 30, revenue totaled NT$65.06 billion, at the low-end of the guided range NT$65 billion-NT$70 billion.
HTC, the top seller of Android smartphones in the U.S. some three years ago, has fallen out of the world's top 10 vendors. The company is betting that a new high-end flagship smartphone, the HTC One (M8), will help reverse declining sales.
Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said in May that HTC had worked to smooth out supply-chain issues, has introduced low-price smartphones in emerging markets and has begun outsourcing some production to cut costs.
HTC has also sold a stake in a Chinese private-equity fund in the last quarter, which the company said it would book a pretax gain of around US$2 million.
But some analysts are still not convinced HTC will soon make a comeback.
As titans Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics are slated to launch their next-generation smartphones in the second half of the year, CIMB analyst Wanli Wang said HTC's revenue could slip further to around NT$45 billion in each of the third and fourth quarters.
"As features of Android phones are becoming more homogeneous to consumers, their life-cycle is now at best two to three months. I don't see a clear catalyst for HTC in the second half this year," Mr. Wang said.
Goldman Sachs also wrote in a research note Thursday, before the earnings release: "We believe 2014 could be the third consecutive year in which the peak quarter is [the second quarter.]"
Write to Aries Poon at aries.poon@wsj.com
