<title:>WSJ.D Live (A Special Report) --- No Stores; No Ads; Just a Lot of Sales: Xiaomi's Hugo Barra describes how the Chinese phone maker relies on its 'family' of customers
<Date:>3 November 2014
<Content:>
Hugo Barra left Google Inc. a year ago to join Chinese-based Xiaomi Inc., the manufacturer of the best-selling phone in the world's biggest market, and a company that operates almost entirely without traditional advertising or retail stores. Xiaomi sold about 18 million phones in 2013 and is forecasting sales of 60 million units this year. The Wall Street Journal's deputy editor in chief, Rebecca Blumenstein, talked to Mr. Barra, Xiaomi's global vice president. Edited excerpts follow.
MS. BLUMENSTEIN: What is the biggest contributor to Xiaomi's success? Is it a cult that you've created in China?
MR. BARRA: Our core belief is basically that if you treat your users or customers as friends, if you listen to them carefully for their feedback, if you respect their views, if you really take care of them, they become attached to you and to your products. They tell their friends. They forgive your mistakes. They help you out. It's kind of like becoming part of a family. So, I prefer family to cult.
MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Many companies say they involve customers or fans in beta tests and testing. Does Xiaomi do completely external beta testing constantly?
MR. BARRA: That's a nice way to look at it. We have this website, which is our user forum. On the China side of the website, we have about 30 million registered users, and about 400,000 posts every day, from product feedback, bug reports, questions, feature recommendations and so on. On top of that, about 10% of people who buy our smartphones are on what we call our beta track. They've chosen to receive software updates every Friday, with new features, some of which are still sort of only half baked, half implemented, because they want to provide feedback.
MS. BLUMENSTEIN: You sell your phones at cost. You are a $10 billion company in revenue, perhaps one of the fastest-growing tech companies ever. But how are you going to make money?
MR. BARRA: We've built our own e-commerce platform from the very beginning. We sell the majority of our products on e-commerce that way. And it's not just phones. We have about 1,000 SKUs on our website.
If you look at our product portfolio, it's incredibly simple and focused. This year, we've only announced two new smartphone models, Redmi Note and Mi4. These models stay in the market for up to 24 months, so it's a very long life cycle. The economies of scale are huge. And all marketing is social media.
MS. BLUMENSTEIN: There have been some headlines about the security of data stored in Xiaomi phones being in data centers in China. Are you moving data centers outside of China to counter such concerns?
MR. BARRA: I actually think Chinese companies are, to a certain extent, held to a higher privacy standard than most companies out there.
We are moving to a global infrastructure with data centers in Asia Pacific, North America, and next year India.
That will help with performance. It helps us comply with local data protection regulations and so on. But then, it has this amazing benefit of making people feel better that they have their data next to them.
MS. BLUMENSTEIN: Jony Ive, Apple's senior vice president of design, has criticized certain phone makers for producing phones that looked a lot like iPhones. He called it outright theft. Many people took that to be, even if he didn't say Xiaomi, a direct slap at Xiaomi. What's your reaction?
MR. BARRA: I don't think Jony mentioned the word "Xiaomi." Our designers, our engineers, are inspired by great products, by great design out there. In today's world, who isn't? Point me to a product in our industry that had completely unique design language. You're not going to be able to find one.
Apple is the world's design Mecca. And Apple inspires itself on great products and great ideas as well. The iPhone 6, in my opinion the most beautiful smartphone ever built, without a doubt, carries design language that's very HTC-like from a few years back, of course with an astonishing twist of Apple innovation on top of it. But it is a somewhat familiar design language.
It's fascinating that Apple took existing ideas that were very good, added their twist of innovation on top, and in many cases actually made those ideas better or much better. Like, quick settings on iOS is much better than quick settings on Android. But it was on Android well before you'd find it on an iOS device. So, this idea of building upon great ideas and adding a twist of innovation is what they do. It's what we do.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
