<title:>Asia
What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>8 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Shanghai Chaori, which this year became the first Chinese company to default on its domestic corporate bonds, plans to bring in a new controlling shareholder and two bond guarantors.
Dalian Wanda plans to set up an annual fund to lure movie producers to a multibillion-dollar studio project in China.
HTC launched a waterproof camera for taking selfies, a departure from the Taiwan firm¡¦s focus on mobile-phone hardware.
London Mining¡¦s shares closed 76% lower after the Sierra Leone-focused miner warned its shares would likely be worthless as it struggles with weak iron-ore prices and the Ebola outbreak.
Yum Brands said its sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter at restaurants open more than a year, hurt by the latest scare about food safety in the country.
A new class of car has been born in India from the unique aspirations of the country¡¦s consumers and a tax loophole.
The number of U.S. venture-capital-backed firms with a valuation of $1 billion or more has hit 49, the highest on record, as many find private funding readily available and see no rush to go public.
Apple said it was surprised by the bankruptcy filing this week by one of its sapphire partners, GT Advanced.
IKEA is making a push into the insurance market, rolling out trial sales of a range of policies within the next few weeks.
The U.K. Court of Appeal found in favor of the London Metal Exchange, but a monthslong dispute with Russian aluminum producer Rusal over the storage of aluminum bars may yet continue.
World-Wide
Security forces from India and Pakistan traded mortar and small-arms fire, forcing thousands to flee amid a dayslong outbreak of cross-border violence that is among the worst in a decade.
The Spanish nursing aide infected with Ebola thinks she may have caught it by touching her face with a gloved hand while removing safety garments, a doctor said.
Hundreds of people have been killed in eastern Ukraine since a cease-fire was signed Sept. 5, bringing the death toll from the six-month-old conflict to more than 3,500, the U.N. said.
An earthquake that struck in China¡¦s Yunnan province late Tuesday killed at least one person and damaged buildings, while aftershocks continued in the area.
