<title:>Business
Corporate Watch
<Date:>2 November 2014
<Content:>
Diageo
Agreement to Swap Brands
Diageo PLC is nearing an asset-swap deal with Jose Cuervo that would give the British liquor company full ownership of a fast-growing tequila brand in exchange for its Bushmills whiskey label.
The two sides are in advanced talks for a deal that would hand Diageo the 50% of Don Julio tequila that it doesn・t already own as well as a cash payment, according to people familiar with the matter.
In return, it would hand over Bushmills to Cuervo, they said.
Exact terms of the expected agreement, which could be announced as soon as this week, couldn・t be learned.
Consummation of the deal would enable Diageo to realize its stated ambition of boosting its presence in the high-end tequila segment after its efforts to buy Jose Cuervo outright fell apart nearly two years ago.
Diageo and Jose Cuervo, owned by the Beckmann family of Mexico, long had a distribution pact that terminated last year. In advance of the expiration, the two sides discussed a takeover of Cuervo by Diageo, but couldn・t ultimately agree on terms.
Dana Mattioli
HTC
Smartphone Maker Expects Flat Sales, Profitable Quarter
HTC Corp. on Friday predicted sales would at least stay flat in the fourth quarter after three years of decline.
The Taiwanese smartphone maker expects revenue of between 43 billion New Taiwan dollars and NT$47 billion (US$1.41 billion to US$1.54 billion) for the current quarter ending Dec. 31. The target range represents a growth of 2.7% to 12% from NT$41.86 billion in the third quarter, and as much as 9.6% higher than the NT$42.90 billion it fetched in the same period in 2013.
HTC also expects to remain profitable for the third straight quarter. For the three months ended Sept. 30, HTC reported a net profit of NT$640 million, compared with a net loss of NT$2.97 billion a year earlier.
：We are forecasting a pretty material increase in handset shipment volume； for the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang told investors during a conference call. Mr. Chang declined to disclose the company・s shipment forecast.
But analysts say HTC still faces headwinds in a market dominated by Apple Inc. and fast-growing Chinese competitors. A challenge HTC and most Android handset makers face in this quarter is the stronger-than-expected demand for the new iPhones.
Aries Poon
Danone
Dairy Giant to Acquire Stake In Chinese Milk-Powder Firm
Danone SA has agreed to acquire a 25% stake in Chinese milk-powder maker Yashili International Holdings Ltd. for $566 million to bolster its presence in China.
The French dairy company will buy 1.2 billion shares in Yashili for 3.70 Hong Kong dollars (48 U.S. cents) each, the Hong Kong-listed Chinese company said Friday.
When the deal is completed, China Mengniu Dairy Co.・s stake in Yashili will decline to 51.04% from 68.05%.
China・s dairy industry is fragmented, making quality control a challenge. That is pushing dairy companies to consolidate.
Yvonne Lee
