<title:>Asia
HTC Predicts Continued Decline in Sales; Continued Decline in Sales Predicted Due to Stiff Competition in the Smartphone Market.
<Date:>31 July 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp. forecast Thursday continued falling sales in the third quarter, as the Taiwanese high-end smartphone maker faces a challenge from the coming launch of Apple Inc.'s next-generation iPhone.
It will be HTC's 12th consecutive quarter of declining revenue on an annual basis. The company's Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said the flagship HTC One (M8) smartphone and other products launched in the first half of the year helped boost second quarter earnings, but sales will slow in the third quarter and the firm will need to trim sales and marketing expenses.
The firm will remain profitable in the third quarter, with earnings-per-share of 0.05 New Taiwan dollars to 0.69 New Taiwan dollars, compared to last year's loss, Mr. Chang said.
"Some of our products, after the initial excitement, have settled at a lower level," said Mr. Chang on an investor call. "But the good thing is it is stabilized."
Mr. Chang added he expects HTC to break its three-year slide in revenue in the fourth quarter, with the help of momentum from the flagship line and the introduction of new products.
HTC faces the challenge of maintaining its ground in upcoming months against the launches of the iPhone and new devices from other rivals like Samsung Electronics Co. Apple is gearing up for the first major refresh of the iPhone in two years, which means the iPhone will be a more formidable foe this year for HTC and others than it was last year.
HTC said Thursday it expects revenue in the third quarter of 42 billion New Taiwan dollars to 47 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$1.4 billion-US$1.57 billion), at best matching the year-earlier quarter. The company forecast earnings per share of 0.05 New Taiwan dollars to 0.69 New Taiwan dollars for the quarter, down from 2.74 New Taiwan dollars in the second quarter.
Mr. Chang said the company would save costs by cutting some long-term marketing expenses and switching to "more tactical" marketing. He said there wouldn't be cuts to "human capital." He also ruled out selling products at a loss.
HTC posted its first full-year net loss last year, as it lost sales to Samsung and Chinese smartphone makers. The company has attributed its market share loss partly to marketing missteps.
In the second quarter, HTC posted net profit of 2.3 billion New Taiwan dollars, up 84% from the same quarter in 2013 and better than a net loss of 1.88 billion New Taiwan dollars in the previous quarter. However, the company's revenue slipped to 65.1 billion New Taiwan dollars in the second quarter from 70.7 billion New Taiwan dollars a year earlier.
The global leader in Android smartphone shipments three years ago, HTC has seen a steep fall in market share as the competitive field thickened with rivals in South Korea and China. Yuanta Financial analyst Jeff Pu estimates the company's global market share is now around 2%.
The company has also faced heavy executive turnover, most recently, with the marketing and engineering chiefs stepping down from those positions. Analysts say the company still needs to prove it can stay profitable on a smaller scale with the sales decline.
"Over long term, HTC may be able to position itself as a niche, high-end player," Mr. Pu said, citing the company's strong engineering but lack of scale. Mr. Pu and other analysts note that succeeding as a profitable niche player in the cutthroat smartphone market will be no easy feat. "Actually no one has this kind of position right now."
Mr. Chang said the company didn't want to only sell in the high-end, although he didn't give details on how the company could regain market share.
"For HTC, to start gaining market share is important," he said. "We have gone through a transition period in 2013."
HTC returned to an operating profit in the second quarter after three consecutive quarters of operating losses, with the help of the launch of its new flagship HTC One (M8) smartphone and cost cuts.
