<title:>By Dan Gallagher   
<Date:>2 April 2014
<Content:>
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]
Apple and Samsung are again squaring off in the legal ring. It may be time to shake hands and call it a draw.
A trial, which kicked off Monday in federal court in California, is centered on five software patents used in smartphone operating systems Apple claims Samsung has infringed. Samsung contends it licensed the technology through Google's Android operating system. Apple wants more than $2 billion in damages and an injunction against Samsung devices using the technology.
But this is a sideshow. The more pressing issue is one that won't get solved in a courtroom: Namely, that the days of easy money in the smartphone business are over.
Growth in developed markets has slowed, and emerging markets don't offer the same fat profit margins. Both Apple and Samsung used their size, clout and early-mover advantage to capture leading market share and the majority of available profits. About half of all smartphones sold globally last year were from either Apple or Samsung, according to IDG.
Both are struggling now to develop new classes of products that can rejuvenate sales growth. Court victories won't do the trick. For Apple, pressing the legal fight also runs a risk of affirming a belief by some that it can't get past the death of Steve Jobs. He had wanted to "go thermonuclear" on Android and device makers that use it, believing they had copied the iPhone.
Since his death in 2011, Apple has largely hewed to that strategy, pressing its case against Samsung, HTC and others in courts across the globe. In its fight against Samsung, the result has been some limited victories -- being appealed -- with financial awards that won't make a dent in the Korean giant's coffers.
Long-running legal wars are costly and divert management's attention. The wireless industry has seen plenty of patent battles. And they typically generate settlements that free all sides to focus on building their businesses. The current fight isn't likely to be much different; there is little chance of Apple knocking out Android, which accounted for nearly 80% of smartphones sold last year, according to Strategy Analytics.
Meanwhile, both Apple and Samsung are trying to expand into new areas like smartwatches. Resolving legal spats will allow both to focus on the future rather than argue about the past. Better to create new opportunities, even if those lead to even more lawsuits.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
