<title:>By Aaron Back   
<Date:>9 April 2014
<Content:>
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]
Samsung and HTC are hoping for a fresh start from a new smartphone product cycle. But a hit phone won't make up for strategic weaknesses.
Both Asian companies provided weak first-quarter figures. Korean electronics giant Samsung said first-quarter operating profit likely declined, which would be the second year-over-year quarterly decline in a row. Taiwan-based smartphone maker HTC reported a net loss for the quarter as revenue continued a downtrend that began in 2011.
The two companies are hoping for a sales lift in the second quarter as both unveil new flagship phones. The latest HTC One made its debut on March 25, and Samsung's Galaxy S5 comes out April 11. The stakes are high for both.
Sales of Samsung's previous top-end phone, the S4, were a disappointment, triggering a sharp decline in Samsung shares since last summer. HTC predicts its new phone will help bring it back into the black in the second quarter.
Waiting for sales results leaves investors in a holding pattern, a predicament that illustrates a fundamental problem with smartphone makers.
Customer tastes are fickle and competition is intense, especially for companies relying on Google's Android platform, as Samsung and HTC do. They lack a software ecosystem to set themselves apart and keep customers loyal. Competition will heat up further as Lenovo storms into the Android market with its acquisition of Google's Motorola Mobility.
In this environment, marketing becomes key. HTC's previous flagship was adored by reviewers, but failed to catch on with customers, partly due to a lack of advertising firepower. Last year, HTC spent $875 million on marketing, compared with Samsung's $11.6 billion, though not all of Samsung's spending was on smartphones. Samsung now will try to limit marketing expenses this year, making it harder to boost sales.
Plus, Apple also is raising its marketing game as the iPhone maker struggles with slowing sales.
Another headwind is deteriorating margins, as the market for high-end phones becomes saturated and growth increasingly comes from emerging markets. Dozens of low-end smartphone makers in China and India use Android free. The average selling price for Samsung smartphones will likely fall to $273 this year from $318 in 2011, according to Bernstein Research.
Investors soon will have a good idea whether HTC and Samsung have hit phones on their hands. Even if they do, that will only boost earnings for few quarters, and then it is back to the races again with a new product cycle.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
