<title:>Opinion
Short-Changing Taiwan's Market; Taipei regulators hurt themselves by trying to squelch bad news.
<Date:>24 July 2014
<Content:>
Taiwan wants to become an international financial center, but its regulators keep undermining that ambition. The latest example is a threatened prosecution of California-based short-seller Glaucus Research Group.
In April Glaucus released a report about suspicious accounting at Asia Plastic Recycling, a Taipei-listed producer of foam rubber based in China's Fujian province. Citing official land, tax and other public records, Glaucus argued that Asia Plastic Recycling inflated its earnings by as much as 10 times. Within days the stock dropped some 30%.
That prompted the Taiwan Stock Exchange to launch an investigation into the alleged fraud. In a mere three days, it concluded that Asia Plastic Recycling had been "truthful" in its financial statements. The real wrongdoer, according to Financial Supervisory Commission Chairman William Tseng, was Glaucus, which had "maliciously spread rumors." Asia Plastic Recycling denied Glaucus's claims and sued for damages.
In May the Financial Supervisory Commission asked prosecutors to indict Glaucus on charges of market manipulation that could bar the firm from doing business in Taiwan and carry jail sentences of up to 10 years. Regulators have also organized a class-action suit against Glaucus by some 2,000 allegedly injured Taiwanese shareholders.
The speed and severity of Taipei's response don't bode well for Taiwanese markets. Glaucus notes that in past cases involving firms listed in the United States or Hong Kong, local regulators have backed up their suspicions of fraud after spending months or years examining independent records from tax authorities, banks, customers and suppliers.
Glaucus may or may not have the goods this time, but Taipei's three-day inquiry isn't reassuring anybody. The share price of Asia Plastic Recycling has continued to fall since April.
Taipei's campaign to squelch bad news extends beyond Glaucus. When details of a negative Barclays report concerning Taiwan's electronics industry leaked last month, Mr. Tseng, the financial regulatory chief, blasted such disclosures as "very inappropriate." Local media report that his agency may this month criminalize future leaks from foreign brokerage houses.
Prosecutors may decide not to indict Glaucus¡Xas they did in a similar case two years ago, when cellphone maker HTC Corp. asked for charges against a critical Citigroup analyst. The Financial Supervisory Commission had never sought such an indictment until Glaucus came along backing its short sale with a public case, an apparent first for a Taiwan-listed stock.
Such "activist shorts" are common elsewhere and have been helpful in rooting out fraudsters operating in China. The lifeblood of any market is the free flow of information, including critical views that keep managers accountable. If Taiwan wants to foster healthy capital markets, its regulators are going about it the wrong way.
