<title:>UPDATE 1-Google faces antitrust lawsuit on US mobile internet search
<Date:>2 May 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
China's financial system is about to be tested with $420 billion in trust products coming due this year. Worries are growing that many debt-laden firms don't have the cash to pay back investors.
Beijing is loosening some currency controls for multinational companies as it works to free up the movement of capital and reduce corporate costs.
The favorable effects of a weaker yen could soon taper off for large Japanese exporters. Honda expects changes in currency rates to cut its earnings by $655 million this fiscal year.
HTC's design chief will step down, as the Taiwan smartphone maker's market share shrinks and its reorganization continues.
The blistering rally in small-cap U.S. stocks late last year may have cooled, but many investors say the group still appears pricey.
Alibaba is considering adding new shares to its initial public offering, a plan that could make the deal the largest in history.
China Construction Bank's net profit increased 10% in the first quarter from a year earlier, but bad loans edged up.
NTT DoCoMo plans to sell its 26.5% stake in an Indian telecommunications joint venture, Tata Teleservices, by June.
Grand Twins International, a Taiwanese-owned garment maker, will raise less than it hoped for in an IPO in Cambodia.
Battles over position and power are upending the slated $35 billion "merger of equals" between ad firms Omnicom and Publicis.
A U.S. appeals court revived some Apple patent infringement claims against Motorola Mobility, but the ruling could deal a blow to a separate case the iPhone maker is pressing against Samsung.
World-Wide
The U.S. and other G-7 nations agreed to move quickly to impose new sanctions on Russia, after concluding the Kremlin isn't abiding by a deal intended to de-escalate the conflict in Ukraine.
An American detained in North Korea declared he wasn't a tourist and tore up his visa upon arrival, the U.S.-based agency that organized the trip said it was told by guides who accompanied him.
Taiwan said it would stop construction at the island's fourth nuclear-power plant to assuage growing opposition to the use of nuclear energy on the island.
Pope Francis proclaimed as saints Pope John Paul II and Pope John XXIII, considered two of the great popes of the 20th century, in an elaborate ceremony.
Egyptian authorities detected the first case of a dangerous SARS-like virus in the country, the state news agency said.
Five British military personnel died when their Lynx helicopter crashed in southern Afghanistan.
