<title:>Tech
LG Electronics Dials Up a Turnaround on Smartphone Sales; Net Profit Rises Sharply, Helped by Launch of G3
<Date:>23 July 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL¡XLG Electronics Inc. said its net profit rose sharply in the second quarter as its mobile business staged a turnaround on higher smartphone sales.
The South Korean consumer-electronics giant launched a new flagship smartphone, the LG G3, in May, allowing it to expand its range of phones during a seasonally weak quarter and ending three straight quarters of operating losses at the mobile unit.
The results are the latest indication that lesser-known smartphone brands such as LG are benefiting from slowing hardware innovation from larger rivals. Earlier this month, HTC Corp. reported an 80% year-over-year increase in its profit for the quarter ended June 30, with the Taiwanese smartphone maker attributing the growth to strong sales of its flagship and midrange phones as well as cost-cutting. Analysts say such increases have come, in part, at the expense of weaker-than-expected smartphone shipments from Samsung Electronics Co., the world's biggest smartphone maker.
LG said Thursday its net profit for the three months ended June 30 more than doubled to 411.8 billion won ($402 million) from 155.5 billion won a year ago.
It sold 14.5 million smartphones during the quarter, up 19.8% from 12.1 million units a year earlier. This led to a 40% year-over-year increase in operating profits for the mobile division to 85.9 billion won, and a turnaround from losses for three straight quarters, the company said.
Analysts estimated LG to have shipped more than 900,000 units of its latest flagship G3 smartphone in the second quarter, which beat initial market expectations of about 500,000 units. LG, which had launched previous flagship smartphone models in the second half, advanced the timing of the launch this year by several months in a bid to combat competition from rivals.
Still, the third quarter will be a challenge for South Korea's second-largest smartphone vendor, as both Apple Inc. and Samsung are planning new product launches. The Cupertino, Calif.-based company is widely expected to launch two new iPhone models sporting larger screens, while Samsung traditionally introduces its popular smartphone hybrid model, the Galaxy Note, in the fall.
LG will have to spend a larger amount on marketing this quarter, which will pressure the company's margins, analysts said. LG's mobile-division profit margin rose to 2.4% in the second quarter from 2% a year earlier.
LG's second-quarter operating profit rose 26.5% to 606.2 billion won, while revenue rose to 15.37 trillion won from 15.23 trillion won. TVs accounted for 33% of the company's total revenue, while mobile phones accounted for 24%. The company is betting heavily on high-end TV models with organic light-emitting diode screens to drive demand in the coming quarters.
