<title:>Markets
Asian Morning Briefing: U.S. Stocks Edge Higher
<Date:>5 May 2014
<Content:>
MARKETS AT A GLANCE
(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
SNAPSHOT
Upbeat U.S. services-sector data helped stocks finish with modest gains while pushing Treasurys mostly lower. The dollar was generally flat. Oil fell on disappointing data out of China, while gold rose on escalating tensions in Ukraine.
OPENING CALL
Australia is set to release trade balance data Tuesday. The country has been posting bigger-than-expected surpluses as new records are set in commodity exports. Chinese demand for metals is still surprisingly strong, and mines in Australia are coming online after massive capital investments in recent years, so there's supply to meet demand. The surge in exports is going to support the economy even as policymakers steer it away from its dependence on the resources sector. Also on tap Tuesday is a cash rate decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia. The cash rate has been on hold at a record-low 2.5% since August, and no change is expected in this latest go-round. Meanwhile, financial markets are closed for holidays in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea.
EQUITIES
U.S. stocks edged higher, recovering from a morning slide, as investors weighed disappointing updates from two blue-chip stalwarts and digested a mixed bag of economic data from China and the U.S.
Trading volumes came in at the third lowest level of the year, which traders said contributed to volatility in stocks. Markets were closed for holidays in the U.K. and Japan.
The sideways trading comes as stocks have struggled to push higher this year, weighed by a slowdown in first-quarter earnings growth and uneven economic growth.
"We have pretty good expectations for the S&P 500 over the next year, but right now, there's no compelling reason to go either way," said Jerry Braakman, chief investment officer of First American Trust, which manages about $1.1 billion. "What do you do from here? Do you sell? Do you buy? You just kind of hold," he said.
Mr. Braakman says he is largely sitting on his existing holdings and awaiting catalysts like better earnings news before placing any big bets either way.
Smaller-size stocks lagged behind the broader market.
Dow component Pfizer reported first-quarter earnings that topped analyst expectations, though its stock shed 2.6% as revenue fell short of estimates. Shares of J.P. Morgan Chase declined 2.5% after the banking giant revealed Friday it expects a 20% drop in trading revenue in its current quarter.
A weak reading on China's manufacturing sector disappointed investors. However, upbeat reading on the U.S. nonmanufacturing sector helped alleviate concerns. The ISM's nonmanufacturing purchasing managers index increased to 55.2 in April from 53.1 in March. That's beyond the 54.1 that forecasters had expected for last month, according a Wall Street Journal survey.
Elsewhere, Target fell 3.5% after the discount retailer said Gregg Steinhafel has stepped down as chief executive officer after six years in the role and 35 years with the company. He will be replaced on an interim basis by Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan.
Liberty Global shares rose 3.4% in afternoon trading after Phillippe Laffont, founder of hedge fund Coatue Management LLC, touted the stock at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York on Monday. He called the cable company an "awesome business" with an attractive price and strong leadership, saying shares could "easily go above $100."
Later this week, investors are expected to track Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen's testimony to Congress scheduled for Wednesday.
In Asian trading Monday, markets were mixed as China's Shanghai Composite erased early losses to close up less than 0.1%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index slumped 1.3%.
FOREX
The Swedish krona tumbled against major currencies after a gauge for industrial production declined, dialing up the pressure on the central bank to cut interest rates.
"The market now is paying more attention to the indicators for Sweden," said Daniel Katzive, head of FX strategy for North America at BNP Paribas. "So now a weak number gets the market to move, as it means growing expectations that the Riksbank will act."
Also during the New York session, the dollar traded mostly flat against major currencies after a better-than-expected nonmanufacturing gauge showed the U.S. continues to emerge from its winter doldrums and grow slowly. This pulled the dollar back from early morning losses against the yen stemming from news of a worsening conflict in Ukraine and disappointing manufacturing data in China.
The euro and British pound held their levels against the greenback, while the yen inched higher.
Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen testifies on Capitol Hill later this week, which could provide direction for the dollar.
BONDS
Treasury bonds pulled back after an earlier rally sent the benchmark 10-year note's yield to the lowest level of the year.
Investors initially propped up bond prices, driven by disappointing manufacturing data out of China and concerns over Ukraine. But sellers dived in after the monthly index for the U.S. service sector rose to 55.2 last month from 53.1 in March, brightening the growth outlook for the world's largest economy.
Monday's U.S. data came on the heels of Friday's nonfarm payrolls that showed the U.S. economy added 288,000 jobs in April, the fastest pace of hiring in more than two years.
"The big picture is jobs are being created, not lost," said James Sarni, senior managing partner at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles, which manages $85 billion. "It is hard for bond yields to trade at these low levels close to 2.5% given that the U.S. economy will continue to improve. I won't change my view on higher yields unless the U.S. economy falters."
Mr. Sarni said he is underweight Treasury bonds than and that yields at these levels make them even less attractive than higher-yielding corporate bonds.
COMMODITIES
Gold ended at a three-week high as the escalating conflict in Ukraine buoys investor interest in wealth preservation.
"Today is a clear pickup in tensions," said Bill O'Neill, principal with Logic Advisors. Still, while investors were again seeking the safety of gold, they showed "less enthusiasm" than during the earlier days of the Ukraine crisis, he said.
"It's one of those rallies that doesn't have a lot of oomph to it," Mr. O'Neill said.
Global crude-oil prices fell to a three-week low as traders looked past risks posed by the deteriorating situation in Ukraine to focus on weak economic data from major crude consumer China.
HSBC's manufacturing purchasing managers' index for China posted a reading of 48.1 for April, slightly improved from March's 48.0 but below the preliminary reading of 48.3. A reading below 50 indicates economic contraction, a bearish signal for oil demand because China is the world's second-largest crude consumer behind the U.S.
"The data in China was disappointing to say the least," said Phil Flynn, an account executive at wholesale brokerage Price Futures Group.
TODAY'S HEADLINES
Target Replaces CEO Steinhafel
Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel, 59 years old, will step down immediately and be replaced on an interim basis by CFO John Mulligan. Target spokeswoman said Steinhafel's decision to step down was just made recently after extensive discussions.
Heavy Fighting Breaks Out in Ukraine
Heavy fighting erupted in a pro-Russian separatist stronghold in eastern Ukraine, with deaths reported on both sides, as government efforts to quell the insurgency move the conflict into a more-dangerous phase.
U.S. Services Sector Picks Up Steam in April
The U.S. nonmanufacturing sector is showing more momentum in April, as the ISM's nonmanufacturing purchasing managers index increased to 55.2 in April from 53.1 in March.
Pfizer Reports Lower Earnings, Revenue
Pfizer said its 1Q profit shrank 15% to $2.33 billion, or 36? a share, as the drug maker posted weaker revenue in its two largest businesses. Overall revenue shrank 8.5% to $11.35 billion.
GM Says Second Recall-Linked Executive Leaves
The General Motors engineering executive who led an inconclusive investigation into problems with ignition switches later linked to 13 deaths has retired, the auto maker said.
AIG Profit Falls
American International Group said 1Q profit fell to $1.6 billion, or $1.09 a share, as the recent quarter was up against an unusually strong year-ago period when there were fewer disaster claims and a release of reserves boosted earnings.
Adidas Puts Rockport Shoe Brand on Auction Block
Athletic apparel and shoe giant Adidas is said to be looking to sell its Rockport brand and has hired investment bank Guggenheim Partners to start pitching Rockport to potential buyers.
HTC Outsources Some Smartphone Work
HTC began to outsource production of some of its smartphones for the first time this quarter, as it looked to slash costs and pursue customers in developing markets.
Sotheby's, Third Point Settle Board Dispute
Activist investor Daniel Loeb and auction house Sotheby's announced a settlement that concludes his seven-month campaign to shake up the company a day before shareholders were to vote on his board candidates.
Taiwan Regulator Targets Short-Seller Glaucus
Taiwan's financial regulator said it plans to seek criminal charges against U.S.-based Glaucus Research Group California over its allegations that a Taipei-listed company included misstatements in its financial reports.
RECENT DJ DOMINANTS
Department of Justice Close to Securing Guilty Plea From Credit Suisse, Sources Say
Eagle Ottawa on Auction Block; Could Fetch More Than $650M -- Sources
Waste Pro USA Considers Minority-Stake Sale, Debt Increase -- Sources
Adidas Puts Rockport Shoe Brand on Auction Block
CalSTRS to Vote Against BofA Directors in Proxy Campaign
TODAY'S CALENDAR
(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)
0030 TAI Apr Price Indexes (CPI / WPI)
0100 PHI Apr CPI
0130 AUS Mar International Trade in Goods & Services
0430 AUS May Australian cash rate decision
0500 IND Apr India Services PMI
0645 FRA Apr Industrial investment survey
0745 ITA Apr Italy Services PMI
0750 FRA Apr France Services PMI
0755 GER Apr Germany Services PMI
0800 EU Apr Eurozone Services PMI
0800 EU ECOFIN meeting of EU finance ministers
0830 UK Apr UK Official Reserves
0830 UK Apr CIPS / Markit Services PMI
0900 FRA OECD Economic Outlook
0900 EU Mar Retail trade
1145 US ICSC-Goldman Sachs Chain Store Sales Index
1230 US Mar U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services
1230 CAN Mar International merchandise trade
1255 US Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index
1400 US May IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index
1400 CAN Apr Ivey Purchasing Managers Index
1700 US ISM Semiannual Report On Business & Economic Forecast
2030 US API Weekly Statistical Bulletin
2300 US Federal Reserve Board Governor Jeremy Stein speech at Money Marketeers event
2301 UK Apr Shop Price Index
2315 JPN Apr Japan Services PMI
2350 JPN Apr Bank of Japan Monetary Policy Meeting Minutes
