<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>9 April 2014
<Content:>
Securitization Is in Regulatory Doghouse
The power of central bankers' proclamations has never been greater: European Central Bank President Mario Draghi stopped the euro-zone crisis in its tracks with just 23 words in July 2012. But it will take more than words if Europe is to revive its securitization market. Regulators are still fighting the last crisis.
A clear push is on to bring securitization in from the cold and boost credit availability. The ECB's Yves Mersch has been a vocal supporter; at the Bank of England, Andy Haldane and Clara Furse also have been speaking out. The two institutions plan to present a joint paper on the topic for the International Monetary Fund's spring meetings this week. But while the securitization market is active, it is a pale shadow of its former self. Public issuance of bonds in 2013 was 76.4 billion euros ($105 billion), down 10% from 2012 and just 16% of the volume issued in 2006, data from the Association for Financial Markets in Europe show.
Strides have been made in improving the structures of securitization. There is greater transparency, and the complex structures that brought down the financial system are a thing of the past. A regulatory consensus is building around support for so-called high-quality securitizations: relatively simple structures with well-understood underlying assets that provide funding to the real economy, such as auto loans. Riskier structures such as collateralized debt obligations or commercial-mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS, aren't in the high-quality bucket.
But regulation still looks punitive. Take Solvency II, the new rules that will govern insurers. Even with the lower capital charges proposed by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority in December for higher-quality structures, securitizations are at a disadvantage. For a triple-A prime U.K. residential mortgage-backed security, or RMBS, the charge is 4.8 times that for a triple-A corporate bond, and is even slightly higher than for double-B-rated junk bonds. Insurers will surely prefer to put their money in corporate bonds rather than securitizations. But insurers are vital in broadening the investor base for securitization beyond banks.
True, the track record for some forms of securitization is appalling. From mid-2007 to the end of the third quarter of 2013, 21.6% of U.S. RMBS defaulted, according to AFME. But the default rate for European RMBS is just 0.1%. For securitizations of loans to small and medium-size enterprises -- the hot topic for central bankers eager to get credit flowing to parts of the economy beyond their reach -- it is 0.4%, AFME says. This performance is impressive given the depth and severity of the euro-zone crisis.
The risk is that regulators are calibrating their rules based on data that fail to reflect the European experience; Mr. Mersch has notably likened this to setting the price of flood insurance in Madrid based on the experience of New Orleans.
The current regulatory proposals might have helped avoid the last crisis. But regulation needs to reflect securitization in its current incarnation, not the market's past sins.
-- Richard Barley
Samsung, HTC Facing
Murky Future in Phones
Samsung and HTC are hoping for a fresh start from a new smartphone product cycle. But a hit phone won't make up for long-term strategic weaknesses.
Both Asian companies provided weak first-quarter figures. Korean electronics giant Samsung said first-quarter operating profit likely declined, which would be the second year-over-year quarterly decline in a row. Taiwan-based smartphone maker HTC reported a net loss for the quarter as revenue continued a downtrend that began in 2011.
The two companies are hoping for a sales lift in the second quarter as both unveil new flagship phones. The latest HTC One made its debut on March 25, and Samsung's Galaxy S5 comes out April 11. The stakes are high for both.
Sales of Samsung's previous top-end phone, the S4, were a disappointment, triggering a sharp decline in Samsung shares since last summer. HTC predicts its new phone will help bring it back into the black in the second quarter.
Waiting for sales results leaves investors in a holding pattern, a predicament that illustrates a fundamental problem with smartphone makers. Customer tastes are unpredictable and competition is intense, especially for companies that rely on Google's Android platform, as Samsung and HTC do. They lack a software ecosystem to set themselves apart and keep customers loyal. Competition will heat up further as Lenovo storms into the Android marketplace with its acquisition of Google's Motorola Mobility.
In this environment, marketing becomes key. HTC's previous flagship was adored by reviewers, but failed to catch on with customers, partly due to a lack of advertising firepower. Last year, HTC spent $875 million on marketing, compared with Samsung's $11.6 billion, though not all of Samsung's spending was on smartphones. Samsung now says it will try to limit marketing expenses this year, making it harder to boost smartphone sales.
Another headwind is deteriorating margins, as the market for high-end phones becomes saturated and growth increasingly comes from emerging markets. Dozens of low-end smartphone makers in China and India use Android free. The average selling price for Samsung smartphones will likely fall to $273 this year from $318 in 2011, according to Bernstein Research.
Investors soon will have a good idea whether HTC and Samsung have hit phones on their hands. Even if they do, that will only boost earnings for few quarters, and then it is back to the races again with a new product cycle.
-- Aaron Back
Stocks: Anything but Rationale
The stock market's recent drop might not have been so unsettling to investors but for one thing: The lack of a clear reason as to why it happened.
Stocks have hit a rough patch, with some of the previous highfliers getting hit the hardest. The 2% the S&P 500 has shed since last Wednesday has unnerved investors, but it isn't as eye-opening as the near 4% decline in the Nasdaq Composite. This is to say nothing of the 7% declines seen in Facebook, Michael Kors Holdings and Wynn Resorts.
Some perspective is needed, though. On the Richter scale of what the stock market has been through in recent years, the past week doesn't register very highly. The Nasdaq's historical volatility -- a measure of how wide its swings have been over the past 30 trading days -- shows that while it has been a bit shakier lately, it isn't even close to as jittery as it was through the summer of 2011.
Back then, the selling was driven by widespread fears that a weakening U.S. economy could tip back into recession.
In contrast, this month's selloff has come amid economic data that would normally be highly supportive for stocks.
Take, for example, the March employment report that came out last Friday. It showed a pickup in hiring, more people entering the labor force, and moderating wage gains. So it should have reassured investors that the economy is in good shape, while at the same time sending the message that the day when the Federal Reserve feels it needs to raise rates will be, if anything, more distant. Yet stocks tumbled.
The stocks that have fallen the most have generally been the ones that had been registering the most upward momentum over the past year; the faster they have risen, the bigger their fall, in other words. These include many new-era tech stocks like FireEye and Splunk that have got some investors worried that another bubble is brewing in Silicon Valley. Those stocks are certainly longer on promise than they are on earnings, with valuation multiples so far beyond rich as to be almost meaningless.
On one hand, this is reassuring: Investors are taking a breather after a breakneck dash. But it is also troubling. Usually there is some event that can be pointed to -- a bad economic report, a big earnings miss, a fight in Washington -- that explains why stocks have fallen. Share prices crumbling just because prices have reached a point that investors can no longer stomach them can signal real trouble. When the dot-com bubble began losing air in March 2000, for example, there was no compelling cause.
The market is nowhere near the heights of ridiculousness it reached back then, both in terms of average valuation multiples and initial public offerings. But like the relative valuations used to justify many popular stocks today, using such an extreme situation as your touchstone for investing isn't advisable.
-- Justin Lahart
Overheard
Technology stocks are sending ripples through the market, but the real thrills are to be found in shipping.
Amid the hand-wringing about the technology sector's selloff, the Nasdaq is down less than 2% this year. Now consider the Baltic Dry Index, which tracks leasing rates paid for ships carrying dry-bulk cargoes such as iron ore. Having ended 2013 at 2,277, it then sank to 1,084 in just over a month, down more than 50%. By mid-March, it had soared by 49% to 1,621. Today, it is 1,186.
Feeling seasick? Probably not if you have dealt with this index for a while. In 2008, it soared above 11,000. Such enthusiasm spurred a shipbuilding boom, leaving far too much capacity. Even still, net capacity will expand by 5% this year, estimates J.P. Morgan Chase.
The push and pull of optimism and despair about the shipping glut will keep the Baltic Dry Index in rough seas for a while yet.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
