<title:>By Aaron Back   
<Date:>13 September 2014
<Content:>
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]
Sony is finally inching beyond hardware. But to gain real yardage it will have to rip a page from Apple's playbook.
Having slowly rebuilt its reputation for quality electronics, Sony is now trying to stitch those devices together into an ecosystem focused on gaming and entertainment. A deal struck this week to stream content from Viacom is a step in the right direction.
The key is uniting hardware, software and services, prompting users to come back again and again. Apple is the prime example of this.
Its iPhones, iPads and computers work in symbiosis with the iTunes store, all united by the Apple operating system. The debut of its Apple Pay mobile-payments service represents the next step in leveraging its massive user base, and heft with retailers, banks and credit-card companies, into an adjacent industry.
Apple's ability to launch attacks into new areas while maintaining a moat around its flagship products is a feat no device-maker dependent on Google's free Android operating system has achieved. The actual near-field communication chip used in Apple's new iPhone to facilitate payments has been in Sony phones since 2012. Without an ecosystem, Sony and rivals such as Samsung and HTC are vulnerable to intense competition from each other and low-end Chinese smartphone producers.
Many of Sony's other offerings, from mirrorless digital cameras to a recently launched $700 digital Walkman are niche products. Sony's phones, despite rave reviews for sleek design and features such as waterproofing, provide little extra value over other Android models. Though Sony has a 15% share of Japan's smartphone market, its global share is just 3%, according to IDC.
Unlike other Android-dependent electronics makers, however, Sony has another launching pad from which to develop an ecosystem. It's the company's one true hit, the PlayStation 4, which is handily outselling rival gaming consoles from Microsoft and Nintendo. The PlayStation already provides gamers a mini-ecosystem in which to interact with fellow users, buy games and download them, play online, and watch movies.
Now Sony is starting to expand the PlayStation universe. Last week, it showed off how its latest smartphone can be paired with a PlayStation controller and become a second screen over a home Wi-Fi connection. It is also unlocking a library of popular old PlayStation games that will soon be playable over the Internet on Sony televisions, and eventually tablets and phones.
And now Sony is giving users something beyond game content. The Viacom deal lets it carry live and on-demand programming from MTV, Comedy Central and 20 other channels on Sony devices. The move is promising, especially if paired with Sony's own in-house library of films and music. Yet to go up against the likes of Netflix and Amazon.com, Sony needs more Hollywood partners. And if it hopes to compete with cable and satellite providers in live television, acquiring rights to sports and news content will be essential.
Unfortunately, Sony is starting from a small base. It has sold more than 10 million PlayStation 4 consoles since late last year, but that pales next to Apple's 500 million iTunes customers world-wide. Sony hopes to sell 43 million smartphones in the year to March.
Investors are counting on a change in fortunes. Sony has posted a net loss in four of the past five fiscal years, and projects more red ink for the 12 months to March on restructuring charges. Yet shares are up nearly 18% this year versus a 2% decline in the Nikkei 225.
Decades after buying CBS Records and Columbia Pictures, Sony may at last be on a path to achieving synergy between its electronics and entertainment arms.
It is still far from a true ecosystem But pointing yourself in the right direction is the first step in getting out of the woods.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
