<title:>India Port Conditions:Paradip
<Date:>21 April 2014
<Content:>
HTC
Smartphone Maker Hires
Samsung Ex-Marketing Head
HTC Corp. is hoping to nab a bit of that Samsung shine, as it has hired the South Korean company's former U.S. marketing chief as a consultant.
An spokeswoman for HTC confirmed Friday that Paul Golden, who helped create Samsung Electronics Co.'s successful Galaxy brand, is now a consultant for Chairwoman Cher Wang. The confirmation followed a Bloomberg report on Mr. Golden's hiring.
The struggling Taiwanese smartphone maker has long admitted that marketing was its weak spot. Within the past few years, HTC has shuffled through three CMOs, and in recent months Ms. Wang has taken an active role in overseeing the company's marketing plans.
HTC's 2012 and 2013 marketing campaigns were all high concept -- one involved sky divers; the other, Robert Downey Jr. giving branding advice to the company -- but they failed to stem the company's slide in sales.
Golden was Samsung's U.S. CMO from 2008 to 2012. He wrote on his LinkedIn page that he created and launched Samsung's Galaxy brand, which helped propel the company's global smartphone market share to 21% from 4.5% during his tenure.
As for HTC, even a fraction of that market-share gain would be a success.
-- Eva Dou
---
TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL
Supreme Court Won't Block
Ruling That Canceled Patent
WASHINGTON -- U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts refused Friday to block a lower-court ruling that invalidated Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.'s patent for the multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone while the Israeli drug maker pursues an appeal to the Supreme Court.
Last year, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, a specialized tribunal that hears patent appeals, threw out Teva's patent, clearing a major hurdle for Sandoz, a unit of Switzerland-based Novartis AG, and other generic manufacturers to begin producing the drug.
Although best known for its own generic products, Teva, based in Petah Tikva, Israel, has several branded medicines as well. Earlier this month, the company reported that Copaxone sales rose 8% to $1.14 billion.
Last month, the Supreme Court agreed to hear Teva's appeal, with arguments expected after the justices begin their next term in October. After the Federal Circuit declined to stay its decision while the case is pending at the Supreme Court, Teva on April 4 asked Chief Justice Roberts, who oversees the Federal Circuit, to step in.
In a one-paragraph order, the chief justice said Teva wasn't entitled to such intervention.
Teva "has shown a fair prospect of success on the merits" of its appeal, he wrote. "I am not convinced, however, that it has shown a likelihood of irreparable harm from denial of a stay." If Teva ultimately prevails, he observed, it can recover damages from generic competitors found to infringe its patent.
"Given the availability of that remedy, the extraordinary relief that Teva seeks is unwarranted," Chief Justice Roberts wrote.
A Teva spokesman couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
-- Jess Bravin
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
