<title:>ANALYSIS-Smartphone suit against Google plays into rivals' hands
<Date:>18 July 2014
<Content:>
Corrections & Amplifications
Boart Longyear Ltd.'s share price was down from a high of 22.18 Australian dollars (US$20.79) in 2007 to 14 Australian cents on Tuesday. A Corporate Watch brief Wednesday incorrectly said the price was down from a high of A$270 (US$254) in 2007 to 13.5 Australian cents on Tuesday.
(WSJ July 17, 2014)
(END)
HTC
Phone Maker Continues
Shuffling Top Ranks
HTC Corp.'s marketing chief is on sabbatical and its head of engineering has switched positions, as leadership changes continue at the struggling Taiwanese smartphone maker.
Benjamin Ho, who joined the company as chief marketing officer in January 2013, has gone on a sabbatical leave for an undisclosed period, HTC said Tuesday. Mr. Ho confirmed he is on leave but declined to give further details or say whether he had resigned.
Fred Liu, the longtime president of engineering and operations, will be assigned to oversee manufacturing and sales services, said two HTC employees, citing an internal memo the company sent Tuesday. Mr. Liu's original duties will be split between Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang and Chief Engineering Officer David Chen, the people said. Mr. Liu couldn't be reached for comment.
HTC declined to say whether Mr. Liu and Mr. Ho have resigned. It added that the company continues to invest in talent and recruitment.
-- Aries Poon and Eva Dou
---
J.B. HUNT
Trucking Firm's Earnings
Rise on Revenue Boost
J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. said its second-quarter earnings rose 6.5% on revenue growth across most of its business segments.
The trucking sector was expected to rebound in the current quarter after getting hit by severe winter weather this year that led to rail-service disruptions and added costs during the first quarter.
During the latest quarter, revenue at J.B Hunt's intermodal segment, which involves the movement of freight containers by several modes of transportation, continued to improve, up 8.9% to $931 million on load growth of 8% and revenue-per-loads increase of 1%.
"The slowdown in train velocity and the difficult driver recruiting environment has challenged our growth" in the intermodal segment," Chief Executive John N. Roberts III said. However, the company was still able to maintain profitability levels, he added.
Worsening driver supply conditions also are expected to remain a challenge for the company's dedicated contract services segment and its trucking segment, Mr. Roberts said. Meanwhile, planned improvement in the trucking business is ahead of schedule.
J.B. Hunt reported a profit of $93.4 million, or 79 cents a share, up from $87.7 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 12% to $1.55 billion.
-- Tess Stynes
---
BOART LONGYEAR
Drill Rig Supplier Enters
Restructuring Talks
Boart Longyear Ltd., the world's largest supplier of drill rigs to the mining sector, has begun talks with restructuring specialists to avoid bankruptcy as resources companies' demand for equipment plummets, three people familiar with the matter said.
Utah-based Boart has been seeking to sell assets or raise capital since February, when it appointed Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to carry out a strategic review as a response to widening losses and high debts.
Now, Boart has started to work with a different set of advisers -- the Australian restructuring group at law firm Ashurst LLP, and insolvency practitioners KordaMentha -- that specialize in radical measures to save companies from financial collapse, the people said.
Boart's share price has crashed from a high of 270 Australian dollars (US$254) in 2007 to 13.5 Australian cents Tuesday after a sharp downturn in global mining investment. At the end of last year, only three out of every 10 drilling rigs owned by Boart were in use, as many resources companies opted to conserve cash rather than explore for new deposits of commodities such as iron ore.
-- Daniel Stacey
---
HERSHEY
Chocolatier Raises Prices
On Higher Commodity Costs
Hershey Co. said Tuesday it would increase prices, citing higher commodity, utility and transportation costs.
The company announced an increase in wholesale prices by a weighted average of about 8% across the majority of its U.S., Puerto Rico and export portfolio.
Hershey also said it expects 2014 sales growth around the low end of its 5% to 7% target, and predicts adjusted earnings growth for the year will be near the low end of its 9% to 11% target.
The price increase "will help offset part of the significant increases in Hershey's input costs, including raw materials, packaging, fuel, utilities and transportation, which the company expects to incur in the future," it said.
-- Josh Beckerman
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
