<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>15 September 2014
<Content:>
Sony Moves Closer to an Apple-Style Ecosystem
Sony is finally inching beyond hardware. But to gain real yardage it will have to rip a page from Apple's playbook.
Having slowly rebuilt its reputation for quality electronics, Sony is now trying to stitch those devices together into an ecosystem focused on gaming and entertainment. A deal struck last week to stream content from Viacom is a step in the right direction. The key is uniting hardware, software and services, prompting users to come back again and again.
Apple's iPhones, iPads and computers work in symbiosis with the iTunes store, all united by the Apple operating system. The debut of its Apple Pay mobile-payments service represents the next step in leveraging its massive user base, and heft with retailers, banks and credit-card companies, into an adjacent industry.
Apple's ability to launch attacks into new areas while maintaining a moat around its flagship products is a feat no device-maker dependent on Google's free Android operating system has achieved. The actual near-field communication chip used in Apple's new iPhone to facilitate payments has been in Sony phones since 2012.
Without an ecosystem, Sony and rivals such as Samsung and HTC are vulnerable to intense competition from each other and low-end Chinese smartphone and tablet producers.
Many of Sony's other products, from mirrorless digital cameras to a recently launched $700 audiophile digital Walkman are niche products. Sony's phones, despite winning rave reviews for sleek design and features such as waterproofing, provide little extra value over other Android models.
Though Sony has a 15% share of the smartphone market in Japan, its global share is just 3%, according to IDC.
Unlike other Android-dependent electronics makers, however, Sony has another launching pad from which to develop an ecosystem. It's the company's one true hit, the PlayStation 4, which is handily outselling rival gaming consoles from Microsoft and Nintendo. The PlayStation already provides gamers a mini-ecosystem in which to interact with fellow users, buy games and download them, play online, and watch movies.
Now Sony is starting to expand the borders of the PlayStation universe. Sony recently showed off how its latest smartphone can be paired with a PlayStation controller and become a second screen over a home Wi-Fi connection. It is also unlocking a library of popular old PlayStation games that will soon be playable over the Internet on Sony televisions, and eventually tablets and phones.
And now it is giving these users something beyond game content. The deal with Viacom lets it carry live and on-demand programming from MTV, Comedy Central and 20 other channels on Sony devices.
The move is promising, especially if paired with Sony's own in-house library of films and music. Yet to go up against the likes of Netflix and Amazon.com, Sony needs more Hollywood partners. And if it hopes to compete with cable and satellite providers in live television, acquiring rights to sports and news content will be essential.
Unfortunately for Sony, it is starting these efforts from a small base. The company has sold more than 10 million PlayStation 4 consoles since late last year, but that pales next to Apple's 500 million iTunes customers world-wide. Sony hopes to sell 43 million smartphones in the year to March.
Investors are counting on a change in fortunes. Sony has posted a net loss in four of the past five fiscal years, and projects more red ink for the 12 months to March as a result of restructuring charges. Yet shares are up by double digits so far this year, handily beating a 2% decline in Japan's Nikkei market benchmark.
Decades after buying CBS Records and Columbia Pictures, Sony may at last be on a path to achieving synergy between its electronics and entertainment arms. It is still far from having an ecosystem to compete with the likes of Apple. But pointing oneself in the right direction is the first step in getting out of the woods.
-- Aaron Back
Yields May Not Surge With Fed
Long-term interest rates look primed to go higher. But that doesn't mean they will travel far.
The Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee gathers this week. It looks likely that in its postmeeting statement or through Chairwoman Janet Yellen's news conference, it will talk more concretely about when it will raise rates.
One reason: The economy looks stronger, with reports on services spending and retail sales last week prompting economists to raise estimates for gross domestic product. Another is that the debate over labor-market slack seems to be resolving toward a view that much of the fall in the labor-force participation rate, the share of the population working or looking for work, is due to factors such as an aging population. That implies the market is closer to the point in which employers will have to pay up for workers.
With the Fed looking more hawkish, bond investors have sent the 10-year Treasury yield to 2.61% Friday from 2.35% at the end of last month. It was 3.03% at this year's start.
Moreover, Federal Reserve figures show the term premium for the 10-year Treasury, the extra compensation investors demand to hold it over cash, has fallen sharply this year. Bond returns have tended to be subpar when term premiums are so low, notes Columbia Management interest-rates strategist Zach Pandl.
Despite all the reasons for long-term rates to rise, there are also forces that could keep them low. First, Treasury yields are higher than in Europe and Japan.
With the European Central Bank considering further action, and the Bank of Japan showing no letup in its attempts to reflate the Japanese economy, that isn't about to change.
Second, while the Fed matters for long-term rates, so does inflation. Economists estimate Wednesday's report on consumer inflation will show prices up just 1.9% in August from a year ago. So long as inflation remains low, investors may view even low-yielding Treasurys as a better alternative than cash. And after years of wrongly being told inflation would jump, they may need to see an actual pickup in prices before changing their minds.
Finally, the world still lacks for safer assets. Developing countries now account for 39% of the world economy, according to the International Monetary Fund, from 21% a decade ago. But often their financial markets haven't yet matured to the point where their citizens feel comfortable investing in them. Their savings have to go somewhere, and Treasurys are a favorite destination.
Last decade, the Fed faced the conundrum of why, even as it raised short-term rates, long-term rates stayed so low. History could repeat itself.
-- Justin Lahart
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
