<title:>Asia
What's News¡X
<Date:>5 May 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel resigned in the wake of the payment-cards data breach during the holiday-shopping period. Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan will fill in as CEO while the retailer searches for a successor.
Baosteel of China is preparing a bid for Aquila Resources, in a deal that would value the Australian mining firm at US$1.3 billion.
A fast-growing investment fund linked to Alibaba, as well as rival funds, should set aside reserves just as traditional banks do with deposits, a Chinese central-bank official said.
HTC began outsourcing production of some smartphones for the first time this quarter, as it looks to cut costs and pursue customers in developing markets.
Pfizer said its first-quarter profit shrank 15% as the drug maker posted weaker revenue in its two largest businesses.
China National Nuclear Power plans to raise as much as $2.6 billion in an initial public offering to fund nuclear-power projects.
Taiwan plans to seek criminal charges against U.S.-based short seller Glaucus Research over its allegations that a Taipei-listed firm included misstatements in its financial reports.
Bendigo & Adelaide Bank will buy government-owned Rural Finance for $1.65 billion, beefing up its lending to farmers in Australia's southern Victoria state.
Siemens's CEO is set to announce a long-awaited shake-up at the German industrial giant as soon as Tuesday.
Apple won a $119 million jury verdict against Samsung for infringing on its patents, but it failed in its goal of inflicting pain on its Korean rival.
Activist investor Daniel Loeb and auction house Sotheby's announced a settlement that concludes his seven-month campaign to shake up the company.
World-Wide
Heavy fighting erupted in a pro-Russian separatist stronghold in eastern Ukraine, with deaths reported on both sides.
Malaysia detained 11 people suspected of involvement in a militant group planning terrorist acts inside and outside the country.
Rescuers searched for 11 crew members missing after their cargo ship collided with a container vessel and sank just off the southeastern edge of Hong Kong.
The WHO declared the recent spread of polio to several new nations to be an international public-health emergency, warning it could undermine a lengthy and expensive eradication effort.
China said it will expand an existing credit line to several African nations by $10 billion to a total of $30 billion.
