<title:>By Friedrich Geiger   
<Date:>3 March 2014
<Content:>
MANNHEIM, Germany -- A German court has rejected a more than $2 billion claim against Apple Inc. filed by patent-holding firm IPCom GmbH that alleged patent infringement by the U.S. technology giant.
The German company had demanded 1.57 billion euros ($2.17 billion) in damages from Apple for iPhones sold in Germany.
The Mannheim regional court also rejected a similar lawsuit that IPCom had filed against Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. The patents in question involve a technology for granting some mobile devices priority access to cellular networks.
IPCom co-Chief Executive Bernhard Frohwitter said he would appeal Friday's verdicts.
If the rulings stand, they will relieve Apple, HTC and other smartphone makers of a potentially expensive legal threat. IPCom has sued companies including Nokia Corp. for alleged infringement of the patent in several countries.
IPCom bought the patent, alongside hundreds of others, in 2007 from Robert Bosch GmbH, a German automotive-parts maker that was a pioneer in car phones but left the business at the dawn of hand-held devices. Fortress Investments Group LLC owns about half of IPCom.
Mr. Frohwitter said he was "very surprised by this decision, particularly since the very same court -- like others in Germany and the U.K. -- has already determined a multitude of infringements of this patent."
An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the ruling.
IPCom's other co-CEO, Christoph Schoeller, said there will be a number of further decisions regarding this and similar patents this year.
The company, which is based in Bavaria, owns several patents for the technology, some of which have slightly differing wordings. The exact terminology has been a topic of debate in the proceedings.
The Mannheim judges didn't disclose the grounds for their rulings Friday, but a hearing last month centered on the wording of a version of the patent granted by the European Patent Office.
Germany's Federal Patent Court on Thursday declared a Microsoft Corp. patent invalid, as demanded by Motorola Mobility, the smartphone maker Google Inc. is selling to Lenovo Group Inc.
Google and Microsoft didn't respond to requests for comment on Friday.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
