<title:>India Port Conditions:Paradip
<Date:>18 April 2014
<Content:>
SAN JOSE, Calif.-¡XSamsung Electronics Co. opened its defense against Apple Inc.'s patent infringement charges by turning to Google Inc., which maintains it didn't copy anything from the iPhone in creating the Android operating system.
The sixth day of the high-stakes patent trial between the two technology giants featured testimony by Google Vice President Hiroshi Lockheimer, who oversees the engineering of the Android software used by Samsung and other smartphone makers. He said Google had been working on many of the software features in dispute in the trial before Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007.
"We like to have our own identity. We like to have our own ideas," said Mr. Lockheimer, who said Google started working on the mobile-phone operating system in 2005. He joined the team in April 2006.
Google's participation adds a new element to the long-running patent feud between Apple and Samsung. The Web search giant's free software has helped manufacturers develop smartphones with many features that resemble those associated with the iPhone. But Google has largely been a figure in the background; Apple hasn't sued the company, choosing instead to target hardware companies such as Samsung and HTC Corp. that sell Android-based phones.
Samsung lawyers tried to assert that Google created the features in question independently of Samsung. Apple has argued that Google isn't a defendant in the case and that it was Samsung who made the decision to copy the iPhone.
Google's testimony helps provide South Korea-based Samsung a Silicon Valley connection. Samsung needs to win over a jury listening to testimony in a federal courtroom just 10 miles south of Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. Jurors in a prior case brought in the same court ruled against Samsung.
This jury will determine whether Samsung infringed on software patents held by Apple, which is seeking damages of $2.2 billion. Samsung says that four of the five patents at issue in the case cover features that Google already had in the works.
Documents revealed earlier in the trial show the intensifying rivalry between Apple and Google with Apple's co-founder Steve Jobs declaring a "holy war" against Google in one email. However, patent experts said it is easier and potentially more lucrative for Apple to go after manufacturers in court than Google, because the Mountain View, Calif., company doesn't charge for Android.
Apple wrapped up its case earlier Friday with Christopher Vellturo, an economist and its damages expert, laying out the case for why it deserves the $2.2 billion damages award. By his analysis, Mr. Vellturo said the infringement had cost Apple $1.07 billion in "lost profits" and that it deserved an additional "reasonable royalty" of $1.12 billion.
Google's Mr. Lockheimer, in testimony that resembled how Apple's engineers described the long hours spent developing the iPhone, said Android was formed by a small team dedicating up to 80 hours a week for its creation. "We worked very hard and it was very start-up like," he testified.
The Google executive also recalled how manufacturers were surprised in early meetings about the search giant's intention to create a mobile operating system.
"They quickly realized that we weren't joking around," Mr. Lockheimer said.
Samsung's lawyers also sought to highlight that Google and Samsung, while partners, don't work together to roll out new software features. Mr. Lockheimer said there have been times when Samsung asked for specific changes to Android and Google refused.
