<title:>Europe
What's News¡X
<Date:>5 May 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Banks again are doling out money to hedge funds and other investors to finance purchases of CDOs, returning to a practice that helped fuel the debt boom ahead of the financial crisis.
U.S. government-bond yields tumbled to their lowest level in six months, underscoring the appeal of safe-haven debt.
Siemens's CEO is set to announce a long-awaited shake-up at the German industrial giant as soon as Tuesday.
Activist investor Daniel Loeb and auction house Sotheby's announced a settlement that concludes his seven-month campaign to shake up the company.
Apple won a $119 million jury verdict against Samsung for infringing on its patents, but it failed in its goal of inflicting pain on its rival.
Target's CEO resigned in the wake of the retailer's payment-cards data breach during the holiday-shopping period.
Intel wields unusual power over the pricing of chips used in server systems, with the average price of such chips up 47% since 2007.
HTC began outsourcing production of some smartphones for the first time this quarter, as it looks to cut costs and pursue customers in developing markets.
World-Wide
At least 22 people¡Xincluding families trapped in a flooded cabin¡Xdrowned when a yacht and a dinghy crammed with migrants trying to slip into Greece capsized in the eastern Aegean Sea.
The Vatican sought to defend itself as it came under questioning by a United Nations panel over whether it violated an international treaty against torture in its handling of a clerical sex-abuse scandal.
The leader of Nigeria's Boko Haram insurgency said in a video message that he had taken as slaves more than 200 abducted teenage girls.
South Sudan's warring parties signed a deal to freeze military actions for at least one month to allow for the evacuation of civilians.
South Africa's president defended a $23 million home-security upgrade that has become a contentious issue ahead of Wednesday's election.
The WHO declared the recent spread of polio to several new nations to be a public-health emergency, warning it could undermine a lengthy and expensive eradication effort.
The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the practice of public prayer before Greece, N.Y., town board meetings, rejecting arguments that the invocations violated the Constitution. 
