<title:>Tech
HTC Makes Further Leadership Changes Amid Falling Sales; Taiwanese Smartphone Maker's Marketing Head Takes Sabbatical; Engineering Chief Is Reassigned
<Date:>15 July 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XHTC Corp.'s marketing chief is on sabbatical and the engineering chief has left his position, as changes continue among the top leadership of the struggling Taiwanese smartphone maker.
Benjamin Ho, who joined the company as chief marketing officer in January 2013, has gone on a sabbatical leave for an undisclosed period, HTC said Tuesday. Mr. Ho confirmed he is on leave but declined to give further details or say whether he has resigned.
Fred Liu, the longtime president of engineering and operations, will be assigned to oversee manufacturing and sales services, said two HTC employees, citing an internal memo the company sent Tuesday. Mr. Liu's original duties will be split between Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang and Chief Engineering Officer David Chen, the people said.
Mr. Liu couldn't be reached for comment.
HTC declined to say whether Mr. Liu and Mr. Ho have resigned. It added that the company continues to invest in talent and recruitment.
These are the latest management changes at HTC, which was the top seller of Android smartphones in the U.S. three years ago but has since fallen out of the world's top 10 vendors. In an effort to reverse the slide, Chairwoman Cher Wang took over supervision of marketing and some other areas from Chief Executive Peter Chou, who refocused on product development. Mr. Chang, the finance chief, received an expanded role, doubling as global head of sales.
Cost-cutting and the launch of new phones helped HTC snap three straight quarters of operating losses in the second quarter. But revenue still fell from a year earlier, as the company lost ground to Samsung Electronics Co. of South Korea and low-cost Chinese competitors.
Marketing has long been a sore point for HTC, whose phones have garnered praise from reviewers but failed to make brisk sales. Mr. Ho is the third marketing chief to leave the post in less than two years. He has been under pressure from Ms. Wang, who has said publicly that marketing was a weak spot, and who recruited Samsung's former U.S. marketing head as a consultant this year.
Apart from launching a new high-end flagship smartphone, the HTC One (M8), the company has also introduced smartphones priced as low as US$145 this quarter to grab a bigger share in emerging markets. In a first for the company, HTC started outsourcing production of some of its smartphones this quarter in a bid to contain costs.
Shares in HTC have lost 90% from their peak in 2011.
The company posted an 80% year-to-year rise in net profit for the second quarter, but said revenue fell 8%.
