<title:>Corporate Watch
<Date:>22 October 2013
<Content:>
HTC
Chairwoman Assumes
Some Duties of CEO
HTC Corp. said Monday its chairwoman, Cher Wang, has taken over some duties from Chief Executive Peter Chou as the Taiwanese smartphone maker continues to struggle with falling market share.
"At this crucial time, it is important for HTC to remain focused," the company said in a written statement. "That means that Peter is focusing on creating the best products and ensuring the best execution across the company. He has invited Cher to participate more in certain areas such as operations, sales and marketing."
The company said that Mr. Chou remains chief executive with "full and final decision-making responsibilities."
Mr. Chou told the Financial Times in an interview published Monday that he is now focusing on innovation and product development, while Ms. Wang has started to oversee some other day-to-day operations.
The move is seen as HTC's latest effort to stay relevant in a market where both high-end smartphone vendors, such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc., and low-cost competitors, such as ZTE Corp. of China, continue to expand market share.
-- Eva Dou
---
TELLABS
Networking-Products Firm
Bought by Private Equity
Tellabs Inc. has agreed to be acquired by private-equity firm Marlin Equity Partners for about $891 million, following a review by the networking-products maker of its strategic alternatives.
Under the agreement, Marlin will acquire Tellabs shares for $2.45 each in cash. Tellabs' shares were up 11 cents at $2.46 in Nasdaq trading Monday. A tender offer will commence no later than Nov. 1, and the deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
Tellabs' board has unanimously approved the merger. The company also said its co-founder and second-largest stockholder Michael Birck supports the deal.
Chairman Vince Tobkin said more than 30 potential buyers were contacted as part of a competitive bidding prices. The deal will enable the company to invest in key technologies for future products and become more competitive, Mr. Tobkin said.
Tellabs, which makes telecommunications networking products, has posted a string of quarterly losses for more than two years. The company has undergone an internal reorganization and strategy realignment, turning its focus to the mobile Internet market.
-- Nathalie Tadena
---
AIRBUS
Jet Maker Hopes JAL Deal
Will Build Market in Japan
Airbus hopes to nearly double its share of the Japanese market by 2020, hoping to build momentum on a landmark order it received from Japan Airlines Co. this month.
Airbus Chief Executive Fabrice Bregier said he hopes to get 25% of the Japanese market by 2020, and half of the market over the next 20 to 25 years, up from 13% currently.
"We will grow our market share" by bolstering sales of jets such as the A350 and other aircraft for low-cost carriers, Mr. Bregier said Monday during a speech at a business forum.
JAL this month ordered 31 A350 jets from the European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. unit, with a total catalog price of about $9.75 billion. The contract includes an option for another 25 of the long-range aircraft.
-- Yoshio Takahashi
---
DEVON
Energy Company Unveils
Partnership Wtih Crosstex
Devon Energy Corp. and Crosstex Energy L.P. unveiled plans to combine Devon's midstream operations with Crosstex to form a publicly traded master limited partnership that will combine the companies' pipelines, processing plants, rail terminals and other oil and natural gas infrastructure.
Earlier this year, Devon proposed dropping many of its midstream assets into an MLP structure, but that idea was not well received by the market. This combination with Dallas-based Crosstex, which operates 3,500 miles of pipelines at the Gulf Coast and in the Ohio River Valley as well as gas processing facilities and rail and barge terminals for oil, gives Devon reach across productive U.S. oil fields.
The combined Devon and Crosstex entity would operate 7,300 miles of pipelines and storage assets across the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Cana and Arkoma Woodford shales in Oklahoma and along the Gulf Coast.
MLPs are a tax-advantaged corporate structure favored by some companies that own pipelines and other oil and gas storage and transportation assets. The publicly traded partnerships have flourished in recent years and are highly sought by investors. They avoid most corporate taxes because the overwhelming majority of cash they generate every quarter is paid out in distributions to unit holders.
The new business, which does not yet have a name, will consist of two publicly traded companies: a general partner and a master limited partnership.
-- Alison Sider and Tess Stynes
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
