<title:>REFILE-UPDATE 2-Apple close to buying Beats for $3.2 bln -source
<Date:>9 May 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
French President Fran?ois Hollande said GE's proposed $17 billion purchase of Alstom's power division isn't satisfactory and the government has the power to secure a better deal.
U.S. prosecutors are close to securing a guilty plea and a settlement of more than $1 billion from Credit Suisse over allegations that the bank helped wealthy Americans evade taxes.
Tencent is buying its way into online mapping as the Chinese games and social-networking giant continues to use strategic investments to expand the services it can provide on smartphones.
Australia's Seek said it is readying its Chinese online-job-market business, Zhaopin, for an IPO in New York, adding to the list of Asian technology companies pursuing U.S. listings.
HTC said it expects to return to profit in the second quarter, but warned its revenue would continue to decline.
AstraZeneca fleshed out its stand-alone strategy with ambitious new revenue targets, four days after turning down a $106 billion takeover bid from Pfizer.
A local regulator warned Beijing banks to boost vigilance in lending to individual borrowers, the latest sign of concern over debt in China's financial system.
Fortescue Metals wants to restart talks on a proposed Western Australia iron-ore export port that could allow smaller miners to better compete with large rivals.
Fiat Chrysler aims to more than double sales of its Jeeps in 2018 and make Dodge a niche, performance-car brand.
World-Wide
A fire that killed dozens of pro-Russian protesters in Odessa last week was likely sparked by rebels, a preliminary government probe found, which is likely to further anger separatists in eastern Ukraine.
Nigeria's government continued to battle an elusive Islamist militant group holding several hundred teenage girls hostage, a day before the nation is to host an event to showcase its economy.
Chinese authorities detained prominent rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang, lawyers and his family said, as the 25th anniversary of the crackdown on Tiananmen Square demonstrations approaches.
A diver's death highlighted the growing physical strains on rescuers searching for dozens of missing passengers from last month's ferry disaster in South Korea.
Cornelius Gurlitt, the 81-year-old son of one of Adolf Hitler's major art dealers, died in Munich, leaving the fate of his roughly 1,400 artworks unclear. 
