<title:>By MOLLY WOOD   
<Date:>10 April 2014
<Content:>
IN a rare bit of cosmic alignment, two Android phone stars drop into orbit at the same time this week.
The HTC One (M8) and the Samsung Galaxy S5 arrive in stores by Friday, and choosing between the two is a matter of emotion versus logic.
The HTC phone inspires something like love with its gorgeous design, underdog story and elegant simplicity. But when I use my mind instead of my heart, it is clear to me that the Galaxy S5 is ultimately the better phone: a powerhouse of features and capability, a slightly better camera and a rugged yet lightweight design.
Both the HTC One (M8) and the Galaxy S5 have top-of-the-line, quad-core, Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processors that support faster 4G LTE, faster Wi-Fi and faster processing of images compared with their predecessors. The chip also allows for beefy graphics processing for games and video and aggressive power management for longer battery life.
The phones also feature almost the same size display: 5 inches for the HTC One (M8) and 5.1 inches for the Galaxy S5, with identical 1920 x 1080 resolutions. And both run the latest version of Google's Android operating system with their own custom touches on top.
The two are also the same price: Both retail unlocked for $650, but the real cost will depend on your carrier and contract.
The primary difference centers on the cameras -- and that's good, since camera and battery life are just about the only reasons to upgrade a smartphone anymore.
The One (M8) has a 4-megapixel camera with HTC's UltraPixel technology, which uses larger pixels to capture more light and produce better photos. The Galaxy S5 has a 16-megapixel camera with Samsung's Isocell technology, which squeezes better image quality from a multitude of smaller pixels.
The HTC One (M8) produced some beautiful images, but pictures also look oversaturated in some cases and disappointingly dark and shadowy in others. Photos are better in bright light, but if the light is too bright, they end up blown out.
The Galaxy S5's camera is excellent; I've seen too many blurry Samsung photos over the years, and this phone finally addresses that complaint. Colors are vibrant and true to life, and focus and shutter speed are fast enough for children's sports.
The headline camera feature on both phones is the ability to refocus images after the fact. The HTC One (M8) accomplishes this with its Duo Camera -- a second camera lens on the back of the phone that captures dimensional information about an image.
The results can be remarkable, although the feature is slightly hidden. Take photos in automatic mode, then when you're viewing them after the fact in your photo gallery, tap Edit. You'll see Effects and an option called UFocus.
Select UFocus and the phone automatically chooses the closest item in the image to focus on; tap anywhere else to refocus. If your subject is far enough away from the background, you can get great results, and then apply fun filters like Foregrounder, which can put the foreground image in color and the background in pencil-sketch black and white, among other things.
I love Duo Camera; it's the HTC's best feature. Unfortunately for HTC, the Galaxy S5 can also do this -- or something like it.
On the Galaxy S5, the feature is called Selective Focus, and it uses onboard image processing rather than a second camera lens. You must enable Selective Focus before you shoot, but the button is prominently placed at the top of the camera screen. You could leave it on all the time, but not every photo demands it.
The camera is a little fussy about which images will work: the closest object must be less than about a foot from the lens to create enough depth for editing, and you'll occasionally get an error message that says the focus can't be applied even though the photo is saved. But the on-screen guidance means your pictures will come out better in the end. Once you've taken the photo, when you view it in the gallery, you'll see a specific icon that means you can edit focus. You then choose near, far or pan focus.
Samsung's Selective Focus is less flexible than Duo Camera, but it's so obvious and user-friendly that I imagine people will use it much more often.
The HTC One (M8) does please selfie fans with a 5-megapixel front-facing camera to the Galaxy S5's 2.1. The Galaxy S5, though, shoots ultra high-definition, or 4K, video recording compared with the One (M8)'s 1080p video. That video feature won't appeal to everyone, but it does make the Galaxy S5 that much more future-proof.
The HTC One (M8) is the obvious aesthetic winner, but it is not the usability king. The back is slippery, and its newly rounded edges make it even more prone to disasters. It's also heavier than the Galaxy S5, enough that it gets tiresome with one-handed use.
The Galaxy S5 looks much more conventional, even a bit bland, but it gets the job done and it's a lot easier to hang on to.
Both phones promise improved battery life and generally deliver. Their power management modes are most impressive. The HTC One (M8) automatically kicks into ''power saver'' mode when you get to 5 percent battery life, and the Galaxy S5 lets you specify either power saving mode or ''ultra'' power saving mode, which puts the display into grayscale, restricts background data and allows only low-power communication like texting and calling.
Ultimately, in the very close showdown between these two phones, it's the extras that put the Galaxy S5 over the top.
The Galaxy's user interface is simplified and easy to use, and the phone has the Samsung S Health app preinstalled. The program includes a pedometer, an exercise tracker, a heart rate sensor (a neat trick using the camera flash on the back of the phone) and a food tracker. These are popular features with or without a wearable fitness band, and I liked having them.
Little things won me over too, like the ability to search the graphically appealing Settings menu. The Galaxy S5's keyboard is far superior to the HTC One (M8)'s, which is oddly narrow and unresponsive. Its interface is also just a hair snappier. But the fingerprint sensor on the Galaxy did not impress me, because it is slow and finicky -- though the fingerprint sensor on the iPhone 5S doesn't impress me, either.
But what really sealed the deal, so to speak, is the Galaxy S5's dust- and water-resistant design. A rubberized strip inside the case and a cover over the charging port help keep out moisture, meaning the phone can survive the rain, sitting in a sweaty armband or maybe a dip in a shallow puddle.
There really aren't many watershed innovations left in smartphones. For me, the Galaxy S5 won a war of attrition and either phone will make you happy in different ways. And with the LG G3 phone still around the corner, the true Android winner may still be circling our star system.
Email: molly.wood@nytimes.com; Twitter: @mollywood
The HTC One (M8)  takes amazing pictures  if you want deep,  bright colors and are  shooting on a sunny  day, left. But in lower  light, right, it overcompensates  with deep saturation.  It works here  but can get a little cartoonish.; The Samsung Galaxy  S5 produces bright images  like the one on the  left, with great detail,  little shadow and lots  of color. It has a speedy  shutter and focus, good  enough to capture children  in flight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOLLY WOOD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)   
