<title:>By Renee Schultes   
<Date:>14 December 2013
<Content:>
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]
Nokia is preparing to carve itself a new niche. But Europe's antitrust regulator is already peering over its shoulder.
The vice president of Europe's competition authority this week said regulators wouldn't tolerate the Finnish company behaving like a "patent troll." The watchdog is concerned that, once Nokia completes the sale of its handset business to Microsoft, the Finns will have an incentive to extract unduly rich returns from its portfolio of more than 30,000 patents.
Licensing patents could account for more than 30% of Nokia's operating profit next year, forecasts Bernstein Research. And, with the shares up 88% since the Microsoft deal in September, despite an escalating tax problem in India, the hope is the patents business will expand. In reality, the regulator isn't the only challenge Nokia will face.
Getting rid of its handset business strengthens Nokia's negotiating power. When it was the world's biggest phone maker, the objective was to protect intellectual property in its own devices and ensure it paid as little as possible to license rivals' essential patents.
So, while Qualcomm, which has no equipment business, made $6.6 billion in revenue from 220 licensees last year, Nokia generated just $643 million from 40 patent licensees, notes J.P. Morgan.
Now, the opportunity is sizeable. Only about 10% of Nokia's portfolio is licensed: Those are mainly standard essential patents bound by the fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or Frand, principle where the patent-holder must offer everyone the same terms. Most wireless-industry licensing revenues relate to such patents. Still, Nokia makes a paltry 0.2% royalty rate on the average selling price of a device with its technology, well below the 3.3% Qualcomm charges, estimates Adnaan Ahmad at Berenberg.
Nokia could reach a 0.75% rate as it renegotiates deals and signs new ones, says Mr. Ahmad. That could pass muster with regulators yet still be valuable. Assuming long-term global handset sales stabilize at $300 billion, Nokia could make $2.25 billion in annual licensing revenues. At 80% operating profit margins, taxed and capitalized, this would be worth 11.1 billion euros, almost half Nokia's market value.
But this partly depends on Nokia licensing more nonessential patents that aren't considered standard in the smartphone industry. Frand doesn't apply, so, in theory, Nokia could charge a lot more.
Recent court decisions are broadly encouraging: A U.K. court initially found handset maker HTC in breach of certain nonessential Nokia patents, although the appeals court Thursday put an injunction on the sale of the phones on hold until the case is reheard next year.
But a court win won't guarantee a stream of license fees. Nonessential patents have often been successfully challenged, worked around or led to payments of one-off damages, notes Bernstein.
And building a licensing business will take time -- perhaps up to five years. Nokia might be sitting on gold. But mining it could take longer than investors expect.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
