<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>9 April 2014
<Content:>
Citi Must Run
Harder to Meet
Return Target
It is cold comfort for Michael Corbat, but Citigroup's capital-return debacle provided one thing: a useful reminder of how sensitive banks remain to leverage, and constraints on its use.
The Citi chief suffered the indignity last month of having the bank's request to return about $7 billion in capital to shareholders rejected by the Federal Reserve. Investors' immediate anguish centered on its dividend staying at a penny a quarter and its share-buyback program at $1.2 billion.
Beyond this, targets set by Mr. Corbat will now be far more difficult to meet, particularly Citi's return on tangible common equity exceeding 10%. Expect all this to garner much attention when Citi reports first-quarter results next week.
Return on tangible equity is an important measure of profit and an indicator of Citi's ability to create or destroy value. It came in at 8.2% last year. To get above 10%, Citi now will have to run harder. Chances are it won't make the finish line on time. Speaking before the Fed's decision, Citi finance chief John Gerspach acknowledged the bank's targets included capital returns.
To see why, consider the boost Citi's return measure would get from paying out capital. Had the bank been able to return $7 billion this year and next, it theoretically would have had to increase profits by only 6% in each of those two years to hit its target.
Without additional capital returns, Citi could increase profits by 10% in each year and barely find its mark.
Clearing the bar, with profit growth staying at the same high pace, would depend on Citi getting approval to pay out additional capital next year. Should profit growth come in at just 5% annually, though, its return would be well short even with a $7 billion payout in 2015.
So the onus is on Citi to increase profits at a brisk pace and patch things up with the Fed. But those might be conflicting objectives.
Citi will need to meet, or possibly exceed, another one of Mr. Corbat's targets: boosting the bank's return on assets to between 0.9 and 1.1 percentage points by the end of 2015. It managed just 0.72 percentage point last year. Hitting the target will be no easy feat in the current superlow interest-rate environment. That could prompt Citi to reach uncomfortably for yield.
But this could draw greater scrutiny, and possibly concern, from the Fed. For Citi, even running faster just to stand still may not be an option.
-- David Reilly
Samsung Future Looks Murky
Samsung and HTC are hoping for a fresh start from a new smartphone product cycle. But a hit phone won't make up for long-term strategic weaknesses.
Both Asian companies provided weak first-quarter figures. Korean electronics giant Samsung said first-quarter operating profit likely declined, which would be the second year-over-year quarterly decline in a row. Taiwan-based smartphone maker HTC reported a net loss for the quarter as revenue continued a downtrend that began in 2011.
The two companies are hoping for a sales lift in the second quarter as both unveil new flagship phones. The latest HTC One made its debut on March 25, and Samsung's Galaxy S5 comes out April 11. The stakes are high for both.
Sales of Samsung's previous top-end phone, the S4, were a disappointment, triggering a sharp decline in Samsung shares since last summer. HTC predicts its new phone will help bring it back into the black in the second quarter.
Waiting for sales results leaves investors in a holding pattern, a predicament that illustrates a fundamental problem with smartphone makers. Customer tastes are unpredictable and competition is intense, especially for companies that rely on Google's Android platform, as Samsung and HTC do. They lack a software ecosystem to set themselves apart and keep customers loyal. Competition will heat up further as Lenovo storms into the Android marketplace with its acquisition of Google's Motorola Mobility.
In this environment, marketing becomes key. HTC's previous flagship was adored by reviewers, but failed to catch on with customers, partly due to a lack of advertising firepower. Last year, HTC spent $875 million on marketing, compared with Samsung's $11.6 billion, though not all of Samsung's spending was on smartphones. Samsung now says it will try to limit marketing expenses this year.
Another headwind is deteriorating margins, as the market for high-end phones becomes saturated and growth increasingly comes from emerging markets. Dozens of low-end smartphone makers in China and India use Android free. The average selling price for Samsung smartphones will likely fall to $273 this year from $318 in 2011, according to Bernstein Research.
Investors soon will have a good idea whether HTC and Samsung have hit phones on their hands. Even if they do, that will only boost earnings for few quarters, and then it is back to the races again with a new product cycle.
-- Aaron Back
Overheard
Nigeria, not widely envied in economic circles, has managed a trick many other countries might like to pull off.
After a long effort aimed at better capturing economic activity, Nigeria said gross domestic product in 2013 was some 89% larger than previously thought.
Services now make up more than half of GDP, versus less than a third before. The Nollywood film industry alone has emerged to contribute 1.2% of GDP, Renaissance Capital says.
Debt is now a mere 11.6% of GDP, down from 22%, Fitch Ratings notes. On the downside, tax revenue, the current-account surplus and foreign direct investment as shares of GDP are all lower now.
Such financial wizardry isn't likely to make an immediate difference in the daily lives of Nigeria's people. But hard-pressed finance ministers elsewhere may wish their own statisticians could do what Nigeria's have done for their country.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
