<title:>By Peg Brickley 
<Date:>28 October 2014
<Content:>
GT Advanced Technologies Inc. said it needs to settle disputes with Apple Inc. because ¡§protracted litigation against one of the largest corporations in the world with over $100 billion of cash would be challenging and expensive.¡¨
Jilted by Apple as a supplier of sapphire screen material for iPhones, GT Advanced filed for Chapter 11 protection earlier this month and moved to put under seal the explanation of what went wrong between the two companies.
Papers filed near midnight Monday say Apple is threatening to crush the small, distressed company with ¡§numerous liquidated damages provisions in the Apple Agreements pursuant to which Apple would likely assert millions, if not billions, of dollars in secured and unsecured claims against certain of the Debtors,¡¨ lawyers for GT Advanced wrote.
Apple, which signed the pact, didn¡¦t respond Tuesday to questions about the settlement.
Court filings spell out why GT Advanced, less than a month into a bankruptcy that shocked shareholders and creditors, decided to cut a deal with Apple, which financed its entry into the sapphire material making industry but declined to use the company¡¦s products when the new iPhones rolled out.
In a supplemental filing Tuesday, GT Advanced revealed it spent $900 million trying to produce ¡§sapphire in quantities, size and quality never before achieved,¡¨ to Apple¡¦s specifications. Apple financed less than half the cost of GT Advanced¡¦s failed attempt to make ¡§a product that Apple would accept,¡¨ court papers say.
Besides borrowing from Apple as it moved to transform its business, GT Advanced borrowed $214 million by issuing notes in 2013 and raised $71 million by selling stock, court papers say.
Unable to negotiate changes to the Apple agreements, GT Advanced found it ¡§would never realize a profit.¡¨ The Apple venture that was to have been ¡§revolutionary for GTAT¡¦s business,¡¨ instead plunged the company into a liquidity crisis with mounting losses ahead, court papers say.
Bankruptcy will allow GT Advanced to end its relationship with Apple and free the company to get back into the business of selling sapphire furnaces to other producers of electronic consumer products, according to a declaration from Daniel Squiller, GT Advanced¡¦s chief operating officer.
GT Advanced believes it could win disputes with Apple and may have ¡§various causes of action against Apple, including actions rooted in the Bankruptcy Code and breach of contract claims.¡¨ The cost of standing up to Apple in court would be too much for the New Hampshire-based company, court papers say.
Attorneys for the official committee of unsecured creditors haven¡¦t responded to questions about whether they are going to support the settlement. Creditors¡¦ lawyers also didn¡¦t respond when asked whether they are conducting an independent probe of the chances of suing Apple.
The settlement gives GT Advanced years to sell the sapphire-manufacturing furnaces to raise money to pay off the Apple debt.
Before agreeing to the settlement, GT Advanced moved to reject the agreements with Apple that contained the liquidated damages provisions. It won approval to shut down sapphire manufacturing operations at the Arizona facility and one in Massachusetts. If a bankruptcy judge approves the settlement, the contract rejection motion will be ¡§moot,¡¨ lawyers for GT Advanced wrote.
GT Advanced doesn¡¦t have a bankruptcy loan but expects to have one ¡§in several weeks,¡¨ court papers say.
The agreement hangs on getting a court order that orders the destruction of all copies of papers GT Advanced filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New Hampshire which explain the trouble between the sapphire supplier and Apple, and the reasons for the bankruptcy.
Dow Jones & Co, publisher of The Wall Street Journal; U.S. Trustee William Harrington, a Justice Department lawyer charged with monitoring the bankruptcy courts, and New Hampshire Attorney General Joseph Foster have challenged the secrecy in the case as illegal. 
