<title:>What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>21 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Apple¡¦s iCloud storage service for users in mainland China has been hit by an attack that could allow perpetrators to gain access to personal data, activists and security analysts said.
Apple said its quarterly profit rose 13%, and it predicted record holiday sales, as demand for new larger-screen iPhones helped to overcome sluggish iPad sales.
Shares of Takata, the Japanese supplier of automotive air bags implicated in several deaths, dropped 23% after U.S. regulators urged drivers to ¡§act immediately¡¨ to fix defective air bags.
Mainland Chinese companies eager to establish a foothold in Hong Kong ahead of a much-vaunted stock-trading link between the city and China are gobbling up small brokerages.
McDonald¡¦s vowed to make fundamental changes after reporting a 30% drop in quarterly profit driven by problems in most major parts of its business.
Samsung Electronics said the U.S. NSA approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the firm¡¦s struggling mobile division.
A growing circle of Korean startup founders are selling their companies and reinvesting in a new wave of young firms.
Australia¡¦s central bank stressed the importance of maintaining rigorous standards on loans to property investors, reflecting concern speculators are dominating the housing market.
World-Wide
South Korea and the U.S. this week will set out conditions for Seoul to take control of its military in the event of war on the Korean peninsula, South Korea¡¦s vice defense minister said.
American detainee Jeffrey Fowle was released from North Korea, nearly six months after he was taken into custody, the U.S. said. Two other Americans who have been convicted of crimes in North Korea are still being held.
New data show Afghan troops are dying at their highest rate in more than a decade just as international combat troops prepare to leave by the end of this year.
Britain¡¦s air force will soon start surveillance flights in Syria using drones, marking a significant escalation in support for the fight against Islamic State.
Died: Gough Whitlam, 98, Australian prime minister from 1972-75 and a proponent of indigenous rightss and the first Western leader to recognize communist China.
