<title:>By Shira Ovide   
<Date:>24 October 2014
<Content:>
Microsoft Corp. may not be cool, but its sales continue to defy expectations by growing at a much faster clip than those of its business-technology peers.
Microsoft's revenue rose 11% from a year earlier in the three months ended Sept. 30, excluding Nokia's mobile-phone business that Microsoft purchased last spring.
Meanwhile, competitors in corporate technology -- such as International Business Machines Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Oracle Corp. -- posted shrinking or slow sales growth.
"Microsoft is bucking the trend," said Daniel Ives, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets.
Microsoft's stock rose 3.1% in after-hours trading Thursday following the release of its financial report for the fiscal first quarter. The company's stock price has reflected strong revenue and profit growth in the past year.
Shares climbed 33% in the past year through Thursday's market close, far outpacing the S&P 500 stock index over the period.
The company's market value recently surpassed that of Google Inc. for the first time since June 2013.
The latest quarterly results continue a charmed first year in office for Satya Nadella, who in February was named chief executive, only the third in Microsoft's history.
Mr. Nadella has focused on many of the same lines of business as his predecessors, and earlier investments in cloud computing and the Xbox videogame console have paid off under his watch.
Mr. Nadella has won over Wall Street with his willingness to cut jobs, favor innovation over existing businesses and de-emphasize products outside Microsoft's core offerings.
In the most recent quarter, Microsoft's revenue from software for business customers rose more than 9.5% from a year earlier.
The company had robust growth in both newer offerings such as Microsoft Office 365 (an online version of the popular desk-jockey software suite) and mature products like the version of Windows for computer servers.
Cloud software sold to businesses -- primarily Office 365, the Microsoft Dynamics CRM sales tool and the Azure cloud-computing service -- more than doubled to $1.18 billion, or roughly 5.1% of total revenue for the quarter.
But Microsoft executives said during a conference call that customers for Azure, which lets corporate IT departments and software developers rent computing horsepower and storage capacity by the hour, also buy the company's traditional corporate software.
Microsoft's mobile business remains a trouble spot. Sales of Windows-powered Nokia smartphones rose, but the company continues to lose market share to Apple Inc. and manufacturers of phones that run Google's Android operating software.
Microsoft made less money than it did a year earlier from its mobile-phone operating software business, largely because Android-phone makers such as Samsung Electronics Co. sold more of their inexpensive phones, which generate lower fees for Microsoft. Android phone makers pay Microsoft a royalty for Microsoft patents used in the Google operating system.
Sales of Windows operating software for personal computers also declined, but less than in prior quarters, driven by improving demand for PCs since their 2013 swoon.
The company made more headway with its other consumer hardware products.
Revenue more than doubled for the Surface tablet computer, which sold poorly when it launched two years ago. The Surface Pro 3, released in June, received a more positive reception, the company said. The newer device is positioned more as a laptop replacement than a tablet computer.
Microsoft also sold twice as many Xboxes as a year ago, it said, helped by a $100 price cut for the latest model.
Despite Microsoft's recent successes, Google tends to get the buzz once reserved for the Redmond, Wash., company.
In an interview, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood was unfazed. "I wasn't that cool in high school, either," she said.
Overall in the quarter, Microsoft revenue was $23.2 billion, including the Nokia business, compared with $18.5 billion a year ago. Net income fell to $4.5 billion, or 54 cents a share, from $5.2 billion, or 62 cents, in the same quarter last year.
Microsoft's profit was weighed down by about $1.1 billion, or 11 cents a share, in part due to costs related to a massive round of job cuts Mr. Nadella pushed through this summer.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
