<title:>By Gerard Baker 
<Date:>27 October 2014
<Content:>
Good morning from Los Angeles,
I¡¦m here at the inaugural WSJDLive event, where executives from some of the world¡¦s top technology companies, entrepreneurs, investors, innovators and thinkers will discuss the rapidly evolving digital landscape. This evening I will be talking with Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook, and Dennis Berman, the Journal¡¦s business editor, will interview Alibaba¡¦s Jack Ma. Look out for our coverage on WSJD.
Republicans are investing in additional House races¡Xfurther evidence that U.S. voters may be making a late turn away from the Democratic Party. Our story looks at fresh signs that indicate the political climate is tilting toward the GOP ahead of next week¡¦s elections. The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News/Annenberg survey found that Ebola fears and the U.S. war on Islamic State have taken a toll on both parties but hurt Democrats more. We also note that Democrats have withdrawn money recently from some GOP-held districts and redirected it largely to endangered incumbents in an effort to limit GOP gains. Meanwhile, the politics this weekend has been consumed with a spat over how to contain the deadly virus. The White House pushed back against the governors of New York, New Jersey, Illinois and other states that instituted procedures to forcibly quarantine medical workers returning from West Africa.
At first glance, a recent hatchet attack on two police officers seemed like the work of a deranged man acting alone. But to law-enforcement officials, the incident¡Xwhich took place in New York on Thursday¡Xrepresents the growing threat of self-radicalized terrorists inspired by extremist websites and social media. Our story examines the rising concern over these one-off, homegrown attacks, which are much harder to pinpoint than the more complex terror plots that have been the focus of law enforcement and intelligence agencies for more than a decade. New York Police Commissioner William Bratton said on Friday that even though police believe the man acted alone, they are treating it as a terrorist attack. ¡§There is a growing number of these individuals out there,¡¨ he said. We note that the incident occurred a day after the attack in Ottawa, Canada, in which a lone gunman shot and killed a soldier at a national war memorial before storming the Parliament building and being gunned down.
Brazil¡¦s first female president has earned herself another four more years by nurturing deep support among the country¡¦s poor. We report that Dilma Rousseff won a second term yesterday, defeating the conservative A?cio Neves in a bitter race that exposed Brazil¡¦s economic and social fault lines. The election posed questions about the depth of corruption in the country and highlighted deep divisions among Brazilians over the way to move forward. . As for the U.S., we note that the outcome likely prolongs a period of stagnant relations with Latin America¡¦s biggest economy¡Xa major player in a region where leftist leaders with ambivalent views of the U.S. have won elections in recent years. Meanwhile, we find that Ms. Rousseff now faces two pressing challenges: mending a divided electorate and reviving her nation¡¦s stagnant economy. She may seek a conciliatory tone in the coming days and try to win over Brazilian business leaders with a corporate tax break.
Some people ride bikes for exercise, while others do so to get from A to B. One new startup in Detroit plans to use pedal power to make beer. Our story looks at how two brothers intend to fit out their microbrewery with stationary bikes hooked up to produce the electricity needed to brew beer. ¡§We are trying to change the mode of biking from recreation and transportation to energy production,¡¨ Shawn Grose, a former science teacher, said. We note that he and his brother Aaron are among many entrepreneurs attempting to fuel Detroit¡¦s revival with bright ideas. But there are more efficient ways to produce energy. To see how the boys use bikes to brew beer, check out our video.
¡XCompiled by Khadeeja Safdar 
