<title:>What¡¦s News
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
The yen¡¦s sharp decline is clobbering some Japanese companies operating in China, forcing them to shrink or rejigger their businesses¡Xor consider pulling out.
Gucci named a chief for its China operations, selecting the head of its Taiwan division for the position after a monthslong search.
Apple plans to increase the number of its Apple-brand retail stores in Greater China to 40 from 15 within two years, CEO Tim Cook said.
Amazon.com intends to launch Web-hosting services in Germany, pushing deeper into a country that has been openly hostile to U.S. Internet companies.
Tesco said Chairman Richard Broadbent would step down, as it revealed that the accounting practices that led to an overstatement of its first-half profit had also occurred in prior periods.
Several executives at J.P. Morgan in New York were warned of potential problems related to the bank¡¦s hiring practices in China more than a year before the program came under scrutiny.
The chairman of CICC resigned, marking the second top management change at the Chinese investment bank in less than two weeks.
Credit Suisse said its third-quarter profit more than doubled as some investment-banking revenues surged, although the bank gave a more cautious outlook for the remainder of the year.
Japan joined a small group of countries in which investors are in the position of paying the government to lend it money.
A slump in oil prices and a surge in supply are tipping the scales in favor of buyers in Asia, who were once at the mercy of big energy exporters.
World-Wide
The capital of Pakistan¡¦s strife-torn Baluchistan region was the scene of attacks that killed at least 12 people, including members of the Shiite Hazara minority.
Russian investigators detained managers and controllers on duty at Moscow¡¦s Vnukovo airport at the time of the corporate-jet crash that killed Total¡¦s CEO.
Canada¡¦s government said it would introduce legislation giving police and intelligence services greater powers to counter potential terrorist threats, a day after Ottawa was rocked by a shooting.
High-school pitcher Shota Tatsuta was picked in Japan¡¦s baseball draft by the Nippon-Ham Fighters, realizing his dream of turning professional. 
