<title:> Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Rally as QE Sun Sets
<Date:>Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 up 1.2% at 1985.05. DJIA up 1.1% at 17005.75. Nasdaq Comp up 1.75% at 4564.29. Treasury yields rose; 10-year at 2.284%. Nymex crude oil up 0.5% at $81.42. Gold up 0.01% at $1,229.20/ounce.
<Content:>
MARKETS AT A GLANCE
(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
SNAPSHOT:
U.S. stocks rallied Tuesday, with the Dow closing above 17000, as riskier corners of the market led benchmarks higher. Treasurys settled lower after an upbeat consumer report sapped demand for haven assets. Oil prices edged higher as the dollar fell. Gold ended flat ahead of the FOMC decision.
OPENING CALL:
On a quiet day for Asian data, Wednesday brings Japan¡¦s September preliminary industrial production figures. Economists see a rebound from an August slump. But Japanese industry has a long way to go if it is to shake off the shackles of domestic deflation and the lost production brought on by an exodus of manufacturers to more affordable production locations.
EQUITIES:
U.S. stocks rallied Tuesday, continuing a rebound from an early-October swoon and leaving the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq with gains for the month.
Fueling the bounce has been renewed confidence in the U.S. economy and corporate earnings, even as the Federal Reserve is expected to announce Wednesday it is ending the bond purchases it has been using to ease monetary policy. On Tuesday, stock prices gained with help from an unexpected jump in consumer confidence to its highest level since 2007. That encouraged investors to move back into areas that are seen as riskier, traders said, after they had fled some of those sectors during steep stock-market declines earlier this month. Small-cap stocks, energy shares and technology stocks posted the strongest gains, and safe-haven investments such as Treasurys declined.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index led major benchmarks, gaining 78.36 points, or 1.7%, to 4564.29. The index is up 1.6% in October.
The S&P 500 added 23.42 points, or 1.2%, to 1985.05 on Tuesday; it has gained 0.6% in October. The Russell 2000 Index, a small-stock benchmark, rallied 31.98 points, or 2.9%, to 1149.45.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 187.81 points, or 1.1%, to 17005.75. It remains slightly lower for the month, down 0.2%.
October initially looked like it would be a tough month for stock-market bulls, as global benchmarks fell on worries about economic growth. At stocks¡¦ latest closing lows on Oct. 15, the Dow had shed 5.3% for the month and was down 6.6% from its all-time high. The S&P 500 had a 5.6% loss and was 7.4% off its September record high. The Nasdaq had lost 6.2% and was trading 8.3% below its 2014 high.
But since then, stocks have largely recovered, as companies have posted better third-quarter results than expected, and some economic reports have been better than anticipated. The S&P 500 and Dow are now less than 2% below their all-time highs from mid-September.
¡§We thought the selloff was unfounded, and now people are buying into the notion that it wasn¡¦t based on any change in the fundamentals,¡¨ said David Lefkowitz, equity strategist with UBS Wealth Management. ¡§It¡¦s very good for the stock market.¡¨
In corporate news, Twitter sank 9.8% after it said Monday it added 13 million monthly active users in the third quarter, up 4.8%. That is a slower pace than the 6.3% added in the previous quarter. The slowing user growth overshadowed Twitter¡¦s revenue, which more than doubled in the quarter and prompted an increase in full-year guidance.
Markets in China outperformed their regional peers Tuesday with a gauge of Hong Kong-listed Chinese firms rallying its most in two months, while investors in other parts of Asia pulled back ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
FOREX:
The dollar wobbled against its rivals following mixed U.S. economic data as investors tried to guess the Federal Reserve¡¦s next move.
The dollar had dropped early Tuesday after a measure of U.S. manufacturing fell for a second consecutive month, suggesting growth may have slowed in the third quarter and interest rates may stay low for longer.
The greenback later pared some of its losses against the euro and made gains against the Japanese yen after a rise in consumer confidence this month pointed to an improved short-term view on business and employment conditions in the U.S.
The euro rose 0.3% to $1.2734, its highest level in almost a week, while the pound climbed 0.1% to $1.6133. The dollar rose 0.3% versus the yen to Y108.16.
¡§If growth is lower than the Fed expects, the Fed probably will delay hiking,¡¨ said Vassili Serebriakov, currency strategist at BNP Paribas. ¡§This gives the market more reason to be cautious ahead of the Fed [decision] tomorrow, and scale back some of its dollar [long positions].¡¨
BONDS:
Prices of U.S. Treasury bonds pulled back, as an upbeat consumer confidence report and a rise in U.S. stock prices sapped demand for haven assets.
The bond retreat came as the Federal Reserve started its two-day policy meeting on Tuesday and is scheduled to release an interest-rate statement Wednesday afternoon.
In late afternoon trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 8/32 lower, yielding 2.284%. Yields rise as prices fall. The yield was 3% at the start of the year.
The monthly gauge of U.S. consumer sentiment jumped to 94.5 this month from 89 in September. The report suggested U.S. consumers remain upbeat over the economy despite the recent market turmoil and struggling growth in the euro zone. It overshadowed another release Tuesday showing purchases of durable goods, a gauge of business spending, fell by 1.3% in September.
¡§Higher stocks, new debt supply, and a very strong consumer confidence number sent bond yields higher,¡¨ said Mary Ann Hurley, vice president of trading in Seattle at D.A. Davidson & Co.
COMMODITIES:
Oil prices edged higher as the dollar fell and conflicting U.S. economic data kept markets in a holding pattern.
Light, sweet crude for December delivery rose 42 cents, or 0.5%, to settle at $81.42 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The global Brent contract rose 20 cents, or 0.2%, to $86.03 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Nymex crude held up for a second day after dipping below $80 a barrel on Monday, with some analysts saying they believe the tailspin that has dragged U.S. and global oil prices down by about 25% since mid-June appears to be over for now.
¡§All in all, I¡¦m in the camp that we¡¦re at or near the bottom in crude oil,¡¨ said Stephen Schork, an analyst and editor of industry trade publication the Schork Report.
Gold prices closed nearly unchanged as investors cautiously awaited the outcome of the Federal Reserve¡¦s policy-setting meeting, while palladium futures rose on hopes of improved industrial demand.
TODAY¡¦S HEADLINES:
TSMC Adds LG to Customer Base
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which has boosted its profile in the chip-manufacturing industry by signing deals with Apple, has added LG Electronics to its list of customers for the high-tech chipsets used in smartphones.
Facebook Results Improve on Mobile Ad Strength
Facebook registered its biggest-ever quarterly profit, but it slightly missed expectations for the first time in two years as a large increase in expenses weighed on the results.
U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Jumps
The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence increased to 94.5 in October from a revised 89.0 in September, showing that consumers are optimistic about the economy this month.
Pfizer Hasn¡¦t Ruled Out Potential Inversions, Chief Says
Pfizer hasn¡¦t ruled out pursuing a so-called ¡§inversion¡¨ acquisition that would lower its tax bill, though the drug maker¡¦s CEO acknowledged the U.S. Treasury Department¡¦s recent crackdown on such deals has diminished their appeal.
FTC Sues AT&T, Alleging Company Misled Consumers
The Federal Trade Commission filed a lawsuit alleging AT&T¡¦s wireless unit misled millions of consumers about its unlimited data plans, bringing its first case against a wireless carrier for data throttling.
U.S. Durable Orders Fall 1.3% in September
Orders for big-ticket manufactured goods fell for the second consecutive month in September, the latest sign of uneven improvement in the economy.
EU Won¡¦t Reject French, Italian Budgets
European Union authorities have decided not to raise serious objections to next year¡¦s French and Italian budgets, defusing an immediate standoff over the bloc¡¦s budget rules that could have led to swift fines against Paris and Rome.
Canada Clears Burger King-Tim Hortons Deal
Burger King Worldwide¡¦s planned $11 billion purchase of Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons cleared one regulatory hurdle when Canada¡¦s antitrust watchdog gave the proposed tie-up the green light.
YouTube Considers Offering Paid Subscriptions
Google¡¦s YouTube is working on a paid-subscription business model, a big change from the advertising-only approach that turned it into the world¡¦s largest online video website, according to a top executive at the Internet giant.
Fed¡¦s Dudley Spoke Frequently to Yellen on Exit Plans
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley conferred frequently with U.S. central bank chief Janet Yellen over the spring as the policymakers mulled a new strategy to eventually wind down the Fed¡¦s ultra-easy policy stance.
RECENT DJ DOMINANTS:
Outerwall¡¦s Redbox, Lions Gate Reach New Deal on Movie Rentals
Two Canadian Pension Funds Renew Offer for Loral Space
Jefferies Expected to Book up to $15 Million Loss on Toms Shoes Debt ¡V Sources
EU to Give Next Batch of Loans to Ukraine
Deutsche Bank Hires Former Goldman Sachs Partner Sam Wisnia
TODAY¡¦S CALENDAR
(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)
2300 SKA Sep Balance of payments
2350 JPN Sep Preliminary Industrial Production
0000 NZ Oct ANZ Business Outlook
0001 UK Oct CBI Growth Indicator Survey
0745 FRA Oct Consumer confidence survey
0900 ITA Aug Large firms labour indicators
0900 EU ECB Bank Lending Survey
0930 UK Sep Bank of England effective interest rates
0930 UK Q3 Insolvency statistics
0930 UK Sep Monetary & Financial Statistics
0930 UK Sep Money and Credit - Lending to Individuals, Lending to Businesses, Broad Money and Credit
1100 US 10/24 MBA Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey
1230 CAN Sep Industrial product & raw materials price indexes
1400 US Sep Metropolitan Area Employment & Unemployment
1430 US 10/24 EIA Weekly Petroleum Status Report
1800 US U.S. interest rate decision
2015 CAN Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz appears at Senate Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
2350 JPN Oct Provisional Trade Statistics for 1st 10 days of Month 
