<title:>What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>26 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Chiquita terminated its deal with Irish food company Fyffes and said it instead plans to enter negotiations with Cutrale-Safra, the coalition between a Brazilian orange-juice maker and an investment firm.
Caixabank and Bankia reported higher third-quarter net profit, but total loan volume was down in a sign that Spain¡¦s economic recovery has yet to take hold for many borrowers.
China plans to slash compensation for top executives at the largest state-owned firms, a move that conflicts with Beijing¡¦s goal of making the companies more market-driven.
Music sales at Apple¡¦s iTunes Store have fallen 13% to 14% world-wide since the start of the year, as the availability of cheap music is sapping demand for digital downloads.
Procter & Gamble is parting ways with its Duracell business, part of a plan to refocus the consumer-goods giant on its best-selling products.
The planned stock-trading connection between Hong Kong and Shanghai has been delayed with no indication of when it will start, Hong Kong¡¦s exchange chief said.
Indonesian prosecutors increasingly are bringing criminal charges against employees of large companies for allegedly causing losses to the state.
World-Wide
U.K. Prime Minister Cameron warned that a huge new bill for EU membership could encourage those in Britain who want to pull out of the bloc.
The U.S.-led coalition officially ended combat operations in Afghanistan¡¦s volatile Helmand province with the ceremonial handover of a sprawling base to the Afghan army.
Australia¡¦s government thinks changes to visas offering foreigners a fast track to residency in return for multimillion-dollar infusions will better combat potential corruption.
Neither of the two Canadian men who attacked soldiers and Parliament last week were on a terror watch list in the U.S., raising concerns among American officials about possible intelligence gaps close to home.
Liberal donors and activists are trumpeting candidates like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren to run against Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016.
As voters in Oregon prepare to decide whether to legalize recreational marijuana, a dispute over taxing the drug is demonstrating the complexity of transforming a black market into a legal one.
Tunisians voted to choose their first five-year parliament since they overthrew their dictator in the 2011 revolution.
