<title:> South Korea¡¦s Export Weakness Puzzles Economists
<Date:>South Korea¡¦s exports to China have underperformed Taiwan¡¦s this year, leaving economists scratching their heads.
<Content:>
Sanofi's Low Blood Sugar
Chris Viehbacher's job just got harder.
The chief executive of Sanofi reportedly wrote to his board asking directors to dismiss rumors that he could be replaced as boss of the French drug maker. Now, a sudden surge in price competition in the U.S. that casts a pall over the company's growth prospects isn't helping his cause.
Indeed, Sanofi's shares dropped 11% after it bemoaned the mounting pressure on its prized diabetes business. And, judging by the experience of U.K. peer GlaxoSmithKline, this could be a lasting drag.
It isn't clear why Sanofi's diabetes business, which contributes about one-fifth of sales, suddenly slowed. It posted 8% sales growth in the third quarter after a healthy 15% rise in the first half.
More important, Sanofi pointed to "aggressive discounting" by rivals in the U.S. as reason to think sales would be flat in 2015 compared with this year.
In what is effectively a two-player market, that is a jibe at Denmark's Novo Nordisk. Sanofi's outlook implies a price decline of 10% to 15% next year. But, notes Barclays, if price competition is heating up it isn't showing in prescriptions: the pair's market shares are currently stable.
This tale, in some ways, mirrors the experience of Glaxo. Sales of its respiratory drug Advair, which accounted for 20% of sales last year, have been shrinking. U.S. primary-care providers have been demanding higher rebates on products, playing off different drug makers against one another. Those woes have weighed on Glaxo, which also has struggled to convince investors it can replace Advair's lost sales with new respiratory products.
Sanofi should be in a stronger position. It operates in an effective duopoly. The French company pushed through three double-digit price increases on insulin Lantus last year, boosting sales, and there is still volume growth in the U.S. market.
The apparent pickup in tit-for-tat discounting is alarming, though. Novo Nordisk and Sanofi are likely watching each other's next launch. Novo Nordisk's next-generation insulin won't hit the U.S. before 2016. But if the Danish company is cutting prices, that could be an attempt to derail Sanofi's launch of its new insulin, Toujeo, expected next year.
Alternatively, Sanofi may have been overly eager to shore up Lantus's position with health-care providers. That could convince investors it can switch patients to its new product, with the threat of a biosimilar version of Lantus from Eli Lilly looming.
Sanofi, like Glaxo, has been trading at a discount to the European pharmaceuticals sector. That widened Tuesday to about 15%. Given Glaxo's ongoing battle to defend its lead in the U.S. respiratory business, such caution is warranted until more is known about Sanofi's outlook in diabetes.
Meanwhile, this latest upset is hardly likely to quiet chatter about Mr. Viehbacher's position.
-- Helen Thomas
StanChart Hit
By Past Growth
Standard Chartered's growth strategy is coming home to roost.
Asia had been the growth engine of the U.K.-listed bank, which notched up double-digit annual profit increases frequently in the past decade. However, on Tuesday the same region was behind the bank's second profit warning this year, sending shares plunging 8.8% to a five-year low.
Impairment charges due to bad loans, made mostly in emerging markets, rose 86% in the third quarter and are up by 36% for the first nine months of this year. In its business-banking and financial-markets division alone, Standard Chartered's main source of growth, impairments could rise by 60% this year, says Jefferies.
This sets off a potential domino effect: As well as taking a bite out of earnings, bad credit can mean higher risk weightings in its loan book, putting further pressure on capital ratios. As loans deteriorate, Standard Chartered has had to reduce risk in its portfolio. But that has resulted in a drop in lending -- which in turn lowers future revenue growth. At the end of the third quarter, its loans to customers had fallen by 3% compared with three months before.
Standard Chartered has been hit by a perfect storm of macro events, with lower-than-expected growth in emerging markets, declining commodity prices and a strengthening dollar with the specter of rising rates.
But the bank is also suffering from idiosyncratic problems that hark back to its growth strategy of chasing revenue ahead of controlling risk. Compared with HSBC, another U.K. bank with roots in emerging markets, Standard Chartered has suffered a higher rate of loan impairments so far this year. The former hasn't reported third-quarter results, but in the first half of 2014, HSBC's loan impairments fell 40% year on year.
Meanwhile, Standard Chartered's total loan-loss reserves compared with nonperforming loans in business banking dropped to 46% in 2013 from 91% in 2007, notes Jefferies.
Standard Chartered is trading at 8.3 times 2015 earnings, compared with HSBC at about 10 times. But as Standard Chartered battles its impairment problems, it also risks eating into tomorrow's earnings growth. Investors still risk getting egg on their face.
-- Thao Hua
China Takes Nuclear-Energy Risk
Nuclear energy: It's risky stuff. Hence, there is often a heavy degree of government control over it -- which makes it a doubly risky investment proposition.
Especially when that government is China's.
A number of Chinese state-owned nuclear companies are going public these days. CGN Power, the country's largest with 9.4 gigawatts of operating capacity, will likely offer $3 billion of new shares in Hong Kong next month, reports The Wall Street Journal.
A small affiliate, CGN Meiya Power, raised $262 million in Hong Kong last month and has seen its shares rise by 20% since. Meanwhile, another top operator, China National Nuclear Power, also plans an initial public offering.
Once listed, these will be among a handful of stocks globally, including the likes of Exelon of the U.S. and EDF of France, offering high or pure exposure to nuclear energy.
And while much of the rest of the world is ambivalent about or hostile to nuclear energy, Beijing has big expansion plans. The Chinese government suspended new project approvals after Japan's Fukushima accident in March 2011.
But the need to diversify away from smog-causing coal has put its nuclear ambitions back on track. China now targets nearly tripling the nuclear capacity that is up and running to 58 gigawatts by 2020. The IPOs will help fund that ambition.
The state's involvement can cut both ways, though. CGN sells most of its output to state-run electricity grids at regulated tariffs. For power plants that began operating before 2013, these tariffs are tailored to yield a "reasonable" profit, according to CGN's prospectus. Yet its net profit has fallen since 2011 because of either surging costs or weakening sales.
For newer plants, the tariff is supposed to be fixed -- except when it isn't. In a bid to avoid competition, these plants are required to cut tariffs if neighboring coal-fired power is cheaper. That is quite likely as coal prices spiral downward.
Energy prices are heavily regulated precisely because consumers are rather attached to light and heat. That makes them subject to political, as well as economic, forces.
In France, for example, shares in state-run EDF tanked 14% in June when the government scrapped a planned tariff increase. There is even more reason to worry in China since governments could keep down power prices as a stimulus to troubled heavy industries.
Growth prospects are high, which is likely one reason that CGN already trades at 10.9 times 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That is far higher than EDF's 4.8 times or Exelon's 6.6 times.
Double-digit multiples are no doubt tempting for IPO bankers but look too much for a large nuclear generator carrying this much political risk. The problem is, CGN's balance sheet means it needs a high multiple, or fast growth in profits, to make its IPO math work.
Net debt as of this March is a hefty 5.1 times 2013 Ebitda, and still high at four times even if related-party loans are excluded. And less than 10% of the IPO proceeds are currently earmarked for paying off borrowings. As if nuclear power wasn't risky enough.
-- Abheek Bhattacharya
Inflation
Shapes
Sweden's
Rate Path
The Riksbank's interest-rate journey has gone full circle. The decisions of the Swedish central bank may yet have wider resonance.
The Riksbank reduced its main policy rate Tuesday to zero from 0.25% and indicated there would be no increases before mid-2016. That marks the culmination of a grand reversal: between June 2010 and July 2011, the Riksbank had raised rates by 1.75 percentage points to 2%. But by December 2011 it was cutting them again. Rates are now lower than in the wake of the global financial crisis.
As elsewhere in developed markets, like the U.S. and U.K., growth isn't the problem. Sweden bounced back swiftly from 2008's turmoil, and the Riksbank forecasts growth of 1.9% in 2014, 2.7% in 2015 and 3.3% in 2016. Unemployment has been falling and is expected to fall further.
But inflation is nowhere to be seen. September's reading came in at minus 0.4%; in 2013, average inflation was just below zero. In part this is due to lower food and energy prices, the effects of which are being felt widely. But even services inflation stood at just 0.5% in September, UBS notes. The Riksbank is way off its target of 2% for headline inflation.
The problem for the Riksbank in cutting rates lies in the risk to financial stability. Swedish house prices have risen steeply and households are heavily indebted. So-called macroprudential policy, which aims to reduce financial stability risks, has so far had little effect on debt, which stands at 170% of household disposable income.
Sweden's challenges are playing out elsewhere, albeit less urgently. In both the U.S. and U.K., there is a similar mix of concerns about the risks ultraloose policy poses to financial stability. But inflation is increasingly in focus, as it is falling quickly, albeit still comfortably in positive territory. If that is mostly down to lower food and energy prices, it is effectively a tax cut for consumers, and a boon for the economy. But if inflation moves far away from target, potentially affecting expectations, it is a big concern for central banks.
The Riksbank's reversal may make those already hesitant about raising rates elsewhere a little more so. The chance of rates staying lower for even longer is slowly rising.
-- Richard Barley
Overheard
Apple may or may not strike a partnership with Alibaba, but the iPhone maker has strong reasons for wanting to find new ways to grow its business in China.
During onstage interviews at the WSJD Live conference Monday, Apple CEO Tim Cook and Alibaba CEO Jack Ma threw out hints they would like to work together, possibly on something involving Alibaba's online payment service called Alipay. Theoretically, the service could work with Apple's Touch ID function embedded on the newest iPhones. But many questions remain, especially given Apple's drive to grow its own payment service.
What is clear is that the Chinese market grows more important for Apple with each passing year. Its annual securities filing, also out Monday, showed Greater China to be the fastest-growing of the company's geographic segments.
Apple may not always play well with others. But with its eyes on China, it could be more motivated to make new friends.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
