<title:>By Sam Schechner 
<Date:>28 October 2014
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. ¡V European governments are discussing how to update regulations for global tech titans as they grapple with the growing market share of a cadre of U.S.-based firms, said Axelle Lemaire, the French deputy minister for digital affairs.
During a discussion with Microsoft Corp. General Counsel Brad Smith at the WSJD Live global technology conference, Ms. Lemaire said France is exploring with Germany and other governments a variety of ways to rein in the market power of ¡§les GAFAs¡¨ ¡V a popular French acronym that refers to Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon.
¡§If they really want to be international players, they have to adapt a little bit more,¡¨ said Ms. Lemaire.
The call for updated European rules is the latest from governments wary of a set of American tech superpowers, and worried that European firms are falling behind on their home turf. European officials in Brussels and other capitals have been putting unprecedented pressure on big tech firms such as Google Inc. and Apple Inc. over questions ranging from competition and privacy to taxes.
Earlier this month, Ms. Lemaire met with her counterparts in Berlin to discuss a joint position paper to be sent to other European governments in coming weeks. According to a person familiar with the matter, the position will include potential updates to competition regulations in Europe, in an effort to restore what the person called a ¡§level playing field.¡¨
Ms. Lemaire said traditional antitrust regulations are difficult to apply to companies such as Google, which offer content but don¡¦t operate traditional networks. ¡§They are not monopolies in the sense that their behavior doesn¡¦t result in an increase in prices,¡¨ she said.
Ms. Lemaire on Tuesday didn¡¦t give specifics on how France proposes to fix that problem, but said for instance that she would like Google ¡V which has a dominant share of Europe¡¦s web-search market -- to be more transparent about how its search algorithm works.
¡§We¡¦re trying to think to ways to ensure that the current European legislation can be respected,¡¨ said Ms. Lemaire. ¡§It is to ensure to the respect of the free share of the market and fair share of the burden of taxation.¡¨
¡§There is a tug of war going on,¡¨ responded Microsoft¡¦s Mr. Smith, adding that ¡§Like most tugs of war, I think people on each side probably need to learn more about where the other side is coming from.¡¨
One major source of tension were the revelations in 2013 of widespread spying by the U.S. National Security Agency, targeting both European citizens and governments. Those revelations have given new momentum to European Union politicians looking to tighten the bloc¡¦s privacy rules, and have hurt American companies¡¦ standing in Europe.
¡§It is something that has impacted our entire industry and we certainly have been impacted,¡¨ Mr. Smith said Tuesday.
Microsoft has taken a big role in pushing back against government surveillance requests, appealing for instance a U.S. court order to turn over customer email stored in a data center in Ireland. Mr. Smith rejected the suggestion that it might be a publicity stunt, arguing that letting the U.S. access data in another country could set a dangerous precedent.
¡§What is going to happen when we have 127 governments all doing this?¡¨ Mr. Smith asked.
Ms. Lemaire said European politicians are wary of imposing too many regulations, because because of what she said are American perceptions of hyper regulation in Europe. But she added that she believes some new rules, such as data protection rules, could help make Europe a more attractive place to do business, by offering greater protection for customers and companies.
¡§It would be too easy to see Europe as the over regulator and the U.S. as the free marketplace,¡¨ Ms. Lemaire said.
