<title:>By Daisuke Wakabayashi   
<Date:>24 October 2014
<Content:>
Ron Johnson, who helped build Apple Inc.'s successful retail stores before a troubled stint as chief executive of J.C. Penney Co., is getting back in the game with a well-funded startup that aims to bring some of the Apple Store mystique to online shopping.
The new company is called Enjoy, and Mr. Johnson says its goal is to change the way people buy and use the "things that matter" in a world in which consumers start their shopping online. The service is scheduled to start in 2015.
In a move reminiscent of his old boss at Apple, Steve Jobs, Mr. Johnson is keeping most of Enjoy's plans and strategy secret to avoid tipping off rivals.
But he said Enjoy aims to help shoppers develop a connection with new products, in the way that Apple Stores let shoppers try its products. For example, Mr. Johnson said it is hard for customers to understand the capabilities of a new product like a GoPro camera from shopping online.
As Amazon.com Inc. and Google Inc. jostle to sell everyday items on the Web and deliver them as quickly as possible, Mr. Johnson says they overlook the human aspect of helping shoppers find the right products, especially for infrequently purchased items that are more complex and expensive.
"That's when you typically want something more than fast delivery; you might want a little help," Mr. Johnson said in an interview. "There's a place for high touch in a high-tech world."
He has sold some big-name investors on his vision. Enjoy has raised $30 million, including a recent $25 million funding round led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Oak Investment Partners. Andreessen Horowitz is also an investor. Mr. Johnson declined to disclose Enjoy's valuation.
A one-time executive of Target Corp., Mr. Johnson was the architect of Apple's retail strategy, which aimed to establish a deeper connection with customers. The minimalist stores allowed people to touch and try Apple's computers. The stores also feature a Genius Bar that provides technical advice or help in setting up new products. The strategy worked: Apple Stores generate more sales per square foot than any other retailer, including luxury brands like Tiffany & Co.
Mr. Johnson left Apple in 2011 to become the CEO of J.C. Penney. But his efforts to overhaul stores and cut back on discounting led to a massive drop in sales. The company ousted Mr. Johnson in April 2013.
He said he took a "one-year sabbatical," spending time speaking to entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. During those conversations, he said, he realized that while customers start shopping online, e-commerce sites focus more on the speed and cost of delivery than on helping them buy the right products.
"Just because we're moving online, it doesn't mean that need for a connection is going away. No one has really thought that through yet," he said.
Last month, technology-news site The Information said Mr. Johnson was launching a high-end delivery service for gadgets and dispatching employees in energy-efficient branded vans. Without going into specifics, Mr. Johnson said: "We don't need another delivery service."
Mr. Johnson has recruited a team of well-known executives to Enjoy, including Jerry McDougal, a former retail vice president at Apple.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
