<title:>By Mia Lamar   
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG -- When saxophone player Kenny G showed up at the main protest site in Hong Kong on Wednesday, it was an amusing break in the daily routine that has emerged as students settle in for what they say will be a long stay on the streets.
At the main occupation site outside the city's government headquarters, a colorful sea of 1,500 tents has expanded to cover a highway, overpasses, sidewalks and a park, surrounded at nearly every entrance with piles of metal and bamboo barricades designed to keep police out.
In contrast to clashes with police as recently as this weekend in one of the two smaller protest areas, the largest site has been peaceful for a week and has taken on the air of a campground. Protesters read and sleep during the day and are joined by office workers who eat their lunches in a rare open, quiet space in the densely populated city.
The government and students held their first talks in the three-and-a-half-week dispute on Tuesday with neither side budging from their positions. The students are calling for Hong Kong to freely elect its next leader in 2017. The government insists that is impossible under a constitution established with Beijing. No new talks are scheduled.
"The government is not willing to listen, so we will stay here," said 27-year-old theater-worker Harry Pang, sitting beside two yellow and blue tents he pitched in a shady area by Tamar Park, next to the government offices. He has been sleeping at the site for two weeks.
The protest site in the city's Admiralty district, a maze of central government offices, bus stops and the upscale Pacific Place shopping mall, draws crowds after work on warm evenings. Student leaders appear nightly on a rudimentary stage, giving speeches and rallying supporters of a movement that until last week had been waning.
The first public-opinion poll released since the protest began showed increasing support for the students and less support for their opponents. The poll by the Chinese University of Hong Kong showed that 38% of respondents supported the protesters in October, up from 31.5% in September. More significantly, the portion of the population that doesn't support the protesters dropped to 36% from 46% in September.
The poll of 802 people was taken Oct. 8-15, just over a week after the occupation began on Sept. 28 when police fired tear gas at protesters. In the week since the polling ended, support may have declined as the inconveniences of blocked roads weigh on the public. The poll also said that 53.6% of respondents considered the use of tear gas by the police not appropriate, while 22% said it was appropriate.
Kenny G's appearance isn't the only one by a celebrity, but it was the only one to draw comment from the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing. The saxophonist, who is popular in China, tweeted a photo of himself from the site wishing "everyone a peaceful and positive conclusion to this situation."
Asked about the appearance of the American musician, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said, "I don't have a specific grasp of the situation regarding the American citizen you raise who is in Hong Kong participating in the illegal Occupy Central."
At the main protest site, banners hang from bridges and walls are covered with colored Post-it Notes offering support. Some of the tents have names that mock Hong Kong luxury developments and one has a sign appealing to passersby: "If something happens, please wake me up." Young couples take advantage of the freedom from crowded family apartments for romance.
Hong Kong media executive Jimmy Lai, founder of pro-democracy tabloid Apple Daily, spends many days at the protest sites and said he thinks the protests could last for as long a year. "People just won't go away if there's no solution from the government," he said.
Teenage members of the Scholarism student group, led by 18-year-old Joshua Wong and one of the three main protest organizers, can often be found at tents pitched directly across from Hong Kong's legislative headquarters known as LegCo. Study tables set up next to the Scholarism tents on Wednesday were littered with cookies and reams of statistics homework.
"The future of Hong Kong affects me," said 19-year-old final-year student Calvin Chau, who said he has been going back to class the past few days at the urging of his father. "The movement is more important than studying at the moment."
A group of the teenagers happily accepted ice cream offered by a passerby on Wednesday morning, and people often bring them rice and noodles. A McDonald's and KFC next to the site are often packed, though protesters complain they are getting sick of the food.
The main protest site has calmed considerably after a night of clashes last week when police allegedly dragged a handcuffed protester around a corner and beat him. The officers have been suspended and after that protest leaders and the victim called for calm.
The scene contrasts with the more riotous Mong Kok protest site across Victoria Harbour, which police cleared last week only to see protesters reoccupy during a weekend of violent confrontations.
Unlike most campgrounds, the bathrooms at the main site are remarkably well-stocked and clean. On Wednesday, a ladies' bathroom in the center of the site was crammed with toothpaste and body wash.
---
Fiona Law and Isabella Steger contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
