<title:>By Rolfe Winkler And Yun-Hee Kim 
<Date:>27 October 2014
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XAlibaba Group Holding Ltd., which recently raised $25 billion in the world¡¦s biggest initial public offering in the U.S., is interested in partnering with Apple Inc. in financial payments, the Chinese company¡¦s executive chairman said.
Jack Ma made the comment during an interview at the WSJD Liveglobal technology conference in California late Monday night.
¡§I hope we can do something together,¡¨ Mr. Ma said, though he cautioned that it should be a ¡§marriage¡¨ that both sides want.
Alibaba is already a giant in payments. Its PayPal-like payments service, Alipay, has 300 million active users, Mr. Ma said at the conference. Apple jumped into payments this month with the launch of Apple Pay, a service that will help users of the latest model iPhones pay for items in stores or in mobile apps.
Later in the evening, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the same conference he is going to meet with Mr. Ma later this week to discuss potential partnerships. He said Alibaba has all the traits of a company that Apple would like to partner with, though he didn¡¦t specify whether Apple will work with Alibaba in payments.
Mr. Ma also said that while he¡¦s in California, he is looking into partnerships in the movie business.
¡§China will be the largest movie market in the world,¡¨ Mr. Ma predicted.
Alibaba has been making a push into entertainment to capture a share of what it thinks will be a booming market in China.
In July, Alibaba announced a deal with Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. to make available on Alibaba set-top boxes offerings such as the ¡§Twilight¡¨ hit vampire movie series and the TV show ¡§Mad Men.¡¨
Since its IPO in September, Alibaba shares have risen 44% and the company has a market capitalization of more than $240 billion, making it larger than Amazon and eBay combined.
Asked whether Alibaba would be interested in buying PayPal after it splits from parent eBay Inc., Mr. Ma demurred. ¡§I have my Alipay,¡¨ he said.
Alibaba transacted nearly $300 billion in gross merchandise value in the 12 months through June on its Chinese retail marketplaces like Taobao and Tmall.
Mr. Ma also said that he sees ¡§great opportunities in e-commerce in the U.S.¡¨
In June, Alibaba launched a U.S. shopping website, 11 Main, and Mr. Ma noted there is room for more competition beyond the big U.S. e-commerce giants.
¡§Amazon, eBay. You need more.¡¨
Mr. Ma also said that he hopes to connect more American small businesses with China¡¦s booming market, citing huge demand for foreign goods among Chinese consumers. He said that while the last 10 years were about Chinese exports, the next 10 will be about Chinese imports.
Speaking about China, Mr. Ma said he hopes Alibaba can help solve longer-term problems, including health issues that spring from China¡¦s rapid industrialization and the extensive pollution that has been the result.
He also spoke about how he hopes Alibaba will continue to disrupt the Chinese financial system, after its Alipay unit¡¦s money-market fund received slightly under $100 billion in deposits after its launch in June.
¡§If banks do not change, let¡¦s change the banks,¡¨ he said, noting Alipay is the third-largest payment service in the world after Visa and MasterCard.
He said Alibaba wants to build a credit system for individuals and small businesses and ¡§radically¡¨ change the Chinese financial system.
Speaking about the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, Mr. Ma said the ¡§Hong Kong part of me (thinks) it¡¦s not about China and Hong Kong relationship. It¡¦s about the young people who don¡¦t have hope. All the big guys take...the good things and the young people feel hopeless. I understand that but they should not push too much. Both sides should listen.¡¨
Hong Kong students have taken to the streets for more than four weeks to protest Beijing¡¦s decision to allow only prescreened candidates to run for the city¡¦s highest chief executive position. Protesters want to choose their own candidates, a move that Hong Kong¡¦s government and Beijing officials say isn¡¦t possible.
--Daisuke Wakabayshi contributed to this article. 
