<title:> Corruption Currents: Agents Scramble to Learn Cartel Tactics
<Date:>A daily roundup of corruption news from across the Web. Readers can subscribe to The Morning Risk Report? here .?Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.
<Content:>
Consumer-Brands Firm Posts Slow Sales
Unilever PLC on Thursday warned of a tough global outlook and struck a gloomy tone after reporting its slowest quarterly sales growth in five years, raising fears of a continued economic slowdown across emerging markets.
The maker of Magnum ice cream and Dove shampoo posted third-quarter underlying sales growth of 2.1%, down markedly from 3.2% in the same period a year earlier and marking the Anglo-Dutch consumer-product company・s worst performance since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Underlying sales growth, which was 3.8% in the second quarter, is adjusted for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange-rate changes.
：It is really tough out there. We have been at pains to say that for a long period of time,； said Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Hu?t, citing the impact of both price deflation and weak sales demand across key markets.
Revenue in the quarter fell 2% to ａ12.2 billion ($15.4 billion), hit by a 2.6% negative currency impact, compared with a market consensus forecast of around ａ14 billion. Profit figures weren・t disclosed.
Simon Zekaria
Brazilian Firms Raise Counteroffer to Fyffes
Brazilian firms Cutrale-Safra on Thursday raised their bid for Chiquita Brands International Inc. by an additional 4% as the banana company・s shareholders prepare to vote Friday on its proposed tie-up with Irish food company Fyffes PLC.
Cutrale-Safra, a coalition of a Brazilian orange-juice maker and an investment firm, raised their offer for Chiquita to $14.50 a share, up from the increased offer of $14 a share it made last week. The new bid values the company at $742 million.
Chiquita responded by saying it would carefully review the offer.
Cutrale-Safra first entered the bidding for Chiquita in August with a bid valued at $666 million, or $13 a share. Chiquita・s board has rejected both of Cutrale-Safra・s previous bids as too low.
Cutrale-Safra・s 11th-hour bid came as Chiquita continued to pursue its planned merger with Irish banana grower Fyffes, a tie-up that would create the world・s largest banana seller.
Chelsey Dulaney
Union Backs Possible Strike Next Month
Unionized workers at Hyundai Heavy Industries late Wednesday endorsed a possible strike over wage and benefit issues, threatening to halt production at the world・s biggest shipbuilding company for the first time in 20 years.
About 18,000 union members, or two-thirds of the South Korean shipbuilder・s total workforce, overwhelmingly voted to walk off the job as early as next month, said union spokesman Kim Hyung-gyun on Thursday.
：Despite the vote result, union leaders will try to seek a negotiated wage deal with the management this week. But if the company doesn・t accept our demand, we have no other choice but to go on strike,； he said.
A company spokesman said both sides would meet later Thursday and intense negations could start as early as Friday.
If workers strike, it will be the first affecting Hyundai Heavy since 1994 when a 63-day stoppage cost it 530 billion won ($522 million).
In-Soo Nam
More Stores to Arrive in China Within Two Years
Apple Inc. plans to increase the number of its Apple-brand retail stores in Greater China to 40 from 15 within two years, Chief Executive Tim Cook said Thursday.
In an interview with Chinese news portal Sina.com, Mr. Cook said the Cupertino, Calif., company will also increase investment in China by an unspecified amount. ：In the future, China will become Apple・s biggest revenue contributor,； he said, according to Sina.com. ：It・s just a matter of time.；
An Apple spokeswoman confirmed the remarks. Greater China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan.
China is Apple・s third-largest market after the U.S. and Europe and is an important growth driver for the company. Its revenue growth in Greater China, however, slowed sharply in the latest quarter ahead of the release of its new iPhone, which was delayed by regulators in China until this month.
Gillian Wong
