<title:>By Prudence Ho   
<Date:>24 October 2014
<Content:>
A senior J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. banker walking to lunch on Wednesday interrupted a live round table webcast on Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests to express his frustration over the continued street blockage.
David Lau, who heads the U.S. investment bank's China corporate finance division, walked into the interview with protest leaders and a democracy advocate that was being streamed by local paper Apple Daily, live from the Admiralty protest site.
"Hong Kong has many people who are against Occupy Central," said Mr. Lau. "The fact that a majority of people are against Occupy . . . but that you guys continue to occupy the sites, that's most undemocratic of all."
He ignored attempts by the program's host to stop him, and continued speaking for nearly two minutes, though he never lost his cool during the interruption.
Mr. Lau is a veteran banker who has handled many China-related initial public offerings, including the US$2 billion listing in Hong Kong of Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group. He is currently helping handle the US$500 million Hong Kong IPO by Hong Kong Airlines.
Mr. Lau's identity wasn't known to the host and the program guests at the time. "Do you think you're being democratic? There's a show going on and then you just come in to interrupt us," said Martin Lee, founding chairman of Democratic Party, who was one of the guests.
"People are trying to get to work, and you've blocked off the streets. That's not democratic either, is it?" Mr. Lau asks. J.P. Morgan's main offices in Hong Kong are blocks away from the main protest site. "Of course, there are those who support and those against Occupy. I just want to express the views of the silent majority. Thank you everyone," Mr. Lau said, before quickly walking away.
Mr. Lau on Thursday told The Wall Street Journal that he was on his way to a lunch meeting and walked through the protest site. He said he just wanted to express his views, noting that he didn't realize the conversation was being streamed live.
Still, Mr. Lau's comments come even as an opinion poll released this week showed increasing support for the students and less support for their opponents. The poll by the Chinese University of Hong Kong showed that 38% of respondents supported the protesters in October, up from 31% in September. More significantly, the portion of the population that doesn't support the protesters dropped to 36% from 46% in September.
J.P. Morgan said Thursday that Mr. Lau's comments were his personal opinions and don't represent the bank's views.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
