<title:> Morning MoneyBeat Asia: U.S. Stocks Slide Along Fibonacci¡¦s Curve
<Date:><dl class="wp-caption aligncenter caption-centered imageFormat-F" style="width: 571px;"> <dt class="wp-caption-dt"></dt> <dd class="wp-caption-dd" style="text-align: left;">An Ottawa police officer runs with his ...
<Content:>
I love using a desktop computer to write, surf and create, but I¡¦ve had a nagging suspicion that they¡¦re going away. Who needs a desktop in a world with laptops, tablets and even phones that are just as capable?
Last week Apple introduced a new kind of desktop iMac that changed my mind. The new computer is similar in shape and capability to last year¡¦s iMac, except for one amazing feature: It packs four times the resolution into its 27-inch Retina screen. Because it has so many pixels¡X14.7 million, in fact¡Xyou¡¦ll never need to think about pixels again.
Priced at $2,500 and up, you don¡¦t need this new iMac¡Xstandard 27-inch iMacs start at $700 less. But oh boy will you want one, particularly if you spend time working with digital photos or videos. Using the Retina iMac lets you see, for the first time, every pixel you¡¦ve captured all at once.
And even if you¡¦re just buried in spreadsheets and Web pages, it feels like putting on a new pair of glasses. The Retina iMac makes type, icons and images look like they¡¦ve been printed on the screen, while suffering few performance problems for that herculean effort.
Apple is evolving the idea of a desktop computer, and the reason we make space for one in our offices, kitchens and family rooms. We¡¦re used to thinking about desktop computers as workhorse processors and hubs for all our devices. But as our devices go mobile and our content goes online, desktops serve a different purpose, as workhorse screens. No other form of computer lets you so comfortably peer for hours at a time into a big, immersive window on your digital world. The new iMac is the best, clearest window on your digital world that you can buy.
There¡¦s good reason to be suspicious of claims about increased resolution from tech companies trying to give us a reason to upgrade. TV makers and Hollywood first touted HD (1 million pixels), then full HD (2 million pixels). Today, they¡¦re trying to push us to Ultra HD or 4K (8 million pixels). The Retina iMac has 67% more pixels than even 4K, with a 5120x2880-pixel resolution known as 5K.
The truth is, there¡¦s a point at which the human eye just can¡¦t see these ever-shrinking pixels, and naturally it varies depending on how far away you¡¦re sitting from the screen. This superhigh resolution makes sense on a desktop computer, where you typically sit about two feet away. It isn¡¦t as necessary on a TV that¡¦s 10 feet from your eyes.
Looking at that distance onto a regular iMac, I can clearly see the gray mesh of pixels that makes up words and icons on the screen. On a Retina iMac, which has twice as many pixels per inch, the screen is equally bright. But I only see shapes and colors¡Xno pixels. You do have to sit close, though: Step back another foot or two and the regular and Retina displays look about the same.
You may ask, why not just plug a laptop into a giant 5K monitor? So far, at least, there¡¦s no way to do that. Dell announced its UltraSharp 27 Ultra HD 5K in September, but standard laptops today can¡¦t drive it. Besides, when it ships in December, it will cost $2,500. Apple¡¦s 5K display is available today, and for the same price includes the best personal computer Apple has ever made. Apple¡¦s 15- and 13-inch MacBook Pro laptops also have Retina screens with a similar density of pixels, but the iMac¡¦s screen is much, much larger.
What¡¦s this rarefied display really good for? Can you get it instead of a 4K TV for next-generation 4K movies, TV shows and games? At the moment, no. Netflix doesn¡¦t stream 4K content to the iMac like it does to the most recent Ultra HD TVs, and other sources of 4K video are pretty limited.
When using the Retina iMac for Web browsing and office tasks, menus and type are sharper and brighter. The extra resolution isn¡¦t about packing in more lines of text¡Xmost things remain the same size as they appear on other Macs. However, parts of websites that haven¡¦t been designed for these higher resolutions¡Xlike buttons made out of graphics instead of text¡Xcan look correctly sized but a bit fuzzy.
The Retina iMac is a game-changer for creative types¡Xnot just professionals, but anyone with a fancy digital SLR camera or GoPro video rig. These folks need to see every detail in their shots, and this lets you. It¡¦s got nearly as many pixels as the popular Canon 5D Mark III, and shows an entire 4K video, like the one I made on a GoPro Hero 4, with room to spare.
The moment the Retina iMac became valuable to me was when I opened one of my favorite photos of Rome and realized, for the first time, it¡¦s actually out of focus! Maybe I¡¦m not as good a photographer as I¡¦d thought. But at least now I have the tools to sharpen things up.
On the Retina iMac, using Adobe Photoshop is like editing a printed picture. In fact, I tried that: I loaded a panoramic photo on a regular iMac and a Retina iMac next to a 360-dot-per-inch photo from an Epson Stylus Photo R3000 printer. The colors matched across all three. The old and new iMac screens have the same color profile. But only on the hard copy and the Retina iMac could I make out faraway faces and other rich details that make the shot interesting.
My biggest worry was that the computer would choke while trying to drive all those millions of pixels. But performance wasn¡¦t a problem in my tests loading giant images in Photoshop, flicking through a field of previews in Adobe Lightroom or editing 4K video in Final Cut Pro. I tested the $2,499 base configuration, which has a speedy 3.5Ghz Intel Core i5 processor, Radeon graphics chip and ultrafast Fusion Drive. At this price point, Apple skimps on the memory, just 8 GB, but that can be upgraded to 16 for $200, and 32 for $600.
The most conspicuous thing Apple didn¡¦t build into its latest iMac screens is touch control. The company made touch screens go mainstream with the iPhone and iPad, so why not with personal computers? Microsoft does for devices running Windows 8. For one, Apple¡¦s Yosemite operating system is still designed for control with a precision instrument like a mouse or trackpad. In the past, Apple executives have argued that it would cause ¡§gorilla-arm¡¨ fatigue to control a vertical display with your hands, not to mention leave 27 inches of grubby fingerprints for you to worry about cleaning off.
But a touch screen wouldn¡¦t be a reason to buy a Retina iMac, anyway. You¡¦d get one because it will usher you into the post-pixel computing experience where you¡¦ll see things you¡¦ve never seen before. For an amateur¡Xand sometimes blurry¡Xphotographer like me, the advantages of the display justify the price.
