<title:> A Major Airbag Recall Is Expanded
<Date:>Summary: U.S. safety regulators add more vehicles to a major airbag recall. Johnson & Johnson will begin human tests of an Ebola vaccine. And Target will roll out some new customer-friendly services for the holidays. The Wall Street ...
<Content:>
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung¡¦s runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung¡¦s leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung¡¦s mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company¡¦s operating profit last year, up from just around a quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company¡¦s forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers who rely on the same Android operating system Samsung uses.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung¡¦s components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
In logic chips, Samsung lost a major customer when Apple switched over to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing for its iPhones. But Samsung is ahead of TSMC in the next generation of smaller-transistor chips, and analysts predict it will win back some Apple orders next year. Similarly in displays, Samsung is at the technological forefront with organic light-emitting diode technology.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung¡¦s mobile business is worthless, which it isn¡¦t, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value¡Xa discount to rivals, who trade at an average of nearly three times¡Xand adding Samsung¡¦s cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock¡¦s true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle. Similarly, Mr. Lee¡¦s heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung¡¦s smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren¡¦t reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
