<title:>By Tom Corrigan 
<Date:>17 October 2014
<Content:>
Pantech Co., a South Korean mobile-phone maker, has sought the protection of a U.S. court as part of its larger restructuring efforts abroad.
The company filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection¡Xthe section of the Bankruptcy Code that deals with international insolvencies¡Xat the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Atlanta Thursday afternoon. If recognized by a U.S. judge, Pantech will receive the benefits of U.S. bankruptcy law, including the so-called automatic stay that halts lawsuits and prevents creditors from seizing assets.
In August, the company filed for the equivalent of Chapter 11 in South Korea after months of trying to restructure its debt.
¡§Ongoing U.S. litigation drains Pantech of its resources and attention away from its rehabilitation efforts,¡¨ the company¡¦s chief executive, Joonwoo Lee, said in court papers filed Thursday.
Pantech listed 14 continuing lawsuits in the U.S., all related to patent disputes.
Pantech relies on sales in South Korea for the majority of its 1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion) in annual revenue, but it faces heavy competition and a saturated market. The company was also hit with government restrictions on excessive handset subsidies earlier this year, which resulted in penalties for South Korea¡¦s three mobile carriers, including a 45-day ban on smartphone sales.
¡§Pantech experienced a dramatic drop in domestic sales because the Korea Communications Commission imposed a suspension on Pantech¡¦s customers, the mobile network carriers, in March 2014,¡¨ the company said in court papers.
According to Pantech, that suspension caused a significant strain on its cash flow.
Pantech initiated a restructuring process in March, which led the company to seek ¡§judicially supervised rehabilitation¡¨ at a district court in Seoul in August.
The company, founded in 1991, underwent its first restructuring from December 2006 to December 2011, court documents show.
Until last year, Pantech sold more phones than Apple Inc. in South Korea, making it the country¡¦s third largest phone-maker after Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. Major shareholders included Qualcomm Inc. and Samsung.
Pantech posted an operating loss of 297 billion won in 2013 and an operating loss of 78 billion won in 2012. Those heavy losses have hampered the company in its search for potential buyers.
A timeline for the company¡¦s restructuring hasn¡¦t yet been announced, but the first hearing is scheduled to take place Nov. 7 in Seoul. In its petition for Chapter 15, Pantech listed total assets between $100 million and $500 million and liabilities as high as $1 billion.
The case number is 14-70482. A judge hasn¡¦t yet been assigned.
Min-Jeong Lee contributed to this article. 
