<title:> Google・s Nexus Line: Nexus 6 Phablet, Nexus 9 Tablet and Nexus Player
<Date:>A day ahead of Apple's expected introduction of next-gen iPads and iMacs, Google is announcing three new Nexus devices: a Nexus 6 smartphone, a Nexus 9 tablet and the Nexus Player, a set-top box for streaming media and games. The new trio ...
<Content:>
GameStop Corp. on Wednesday continued its push for holiday shoppers by unveiling expanded layaway offerings, including next-generation videogame consoles and tablets, along with more generous financing terms for holders of its store credit cards.
The latest moves come as the videogame and electronics retailer has been posting strong results buoyed by demand for new consoles from Sony, Microsoft Corp. and Nintendo.
For the holidays, the company is preparing to see high demand for new games for the PlayStation 4, the Xbox One and the Wii U, as well as from customers who are looking to trade in their old smartphones for cash to help buy the new Apple Inc. iPhone 6. GameStop refurbishes and sells used iPhones and other pre-owned electronics as it looks to become a bigger player in an industry that the company expects will grow by 20% to 25% annually over the next five years.
Last month, to prepare for the rush, GameStop said it would hire 25,000 seasonal workers this year, a 47% jump from last year.
In another change from last year, when the Microsoft and Sony consoles debuted, the retailer has made the PlayStation 4 available for layaway during the upcoming holiday season. It had previously made the console available for layaway in April.
The Xbox One, which was available for layaway in February, wasn・t on the list of products the company announced Wednesday. However, a company representative confirmed that the device will become available for layaway in early November.
Two Samsung Galaxy 4 tablets will be available under the program, too, the company said, as will a variety of headsets and accessories that hadn・t been available before. The company added that it will make more products available as the season progresses and items become available.
GameStop also said it is also offering a limited-time financing offer for holders of its PowerUP Rewards Pro credit card. Under the incentive, customers will be eligible to pay nothing in interest on purchases of $500 or more for six months, GameStop said.
Retailers have reinvigorated layaway programs in recent years as cost-conscious consumers trim back credit-card spending amid a slow economic recovery. Sears Holdings Corp.・s Kmart chain recently triggered the beginning of its layaway season, as well. 
