<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>8 October 2014
<Content:>
Apple Takes Bite of Samsung
Samsung Electronics has gone from smartphone model to basket case. There could be worse to come.
Samsung said Tuesday its third-quarter operating profit likely fell 58% to 62% from a year earlier, which was even worse than already low analyst expectations. It was the fourth quarter in a row of declining operating profit. A detailed breakdown won't be available until Samsung releases full results, but the problem is clearly in the mobile division. Samsung said total smartphone shipments "increased marginally" in the period, but margins declined due to lower selling prices and higher marketing expenses.
Samsung's smartphone business is facing intense competitive pressure at the low end from Chinese handset makers, and at the high end from the iPhone.
With the iPhone 6, Apple essentially wiped out Samsung's distinguishing feature: a big screen size. And with the jumbo iPhone 6 Plus, Apple has now entered into the "phablet" segment that Samsung pioneered.
The third quarter included just 12 days of iPhone 6 sales. Expect the impact on Samsung in the fourth quarter to be much bigger. Nomura analyst C.W. Chung says Samsung's past few years of strong profitability in mobile devices were an anomaly, driven by Apple's premium pricing, which supported margins across the sector.
But without essential differentiators like Apple's, such as design cachet and a software ecosystem, Samsung is headed toward becoming a maker of commoditized hardware.
Mr. Chung sees operating margins for handsets and tablets declining to 11% in 2016 from 21% in 2013.
A bright spot for Samsung is its components business, including memory and logic chips as well as displays. Analysts expect components to account for more than 40% of operating profits next year, compared with around 30% this year. Samsung underscored its focus on this area on Monday, when it announced plans to invest $14.7 billion building a new chip plant in South Korea.
Components are less sexy than smartphones, but they can still make money, especially when you are the technology and scale leader, as Samsung is in memory chips, says Mark Newman of Bernstein Research. But Samsung's smartphone problems could blow back on the component business as well. The company's smartphones are the biggest customers for its application processor chips and cutting-edge organic light emitting diode displays.
Ultimately, focusing more on components will only intensify the trend toward becoming a commoditized hardware maker. For that, investors have plenty of other choices.
-- Aaron Back
Hilton Tosses the Waldorf
To Chinese Insurer Anbang
The Chinese insurer spending eye-popping sums on the Waldorf-Astoria should remember that luxury-hotel stays often come with hidden charges.
Hilton Worldwide Holdings struck a deal Monday to sell Manhattan's block-sized Waldorf-Astoria to Anbang Insurance Group, little known outside China, for $1.95 billion. It is a mega transaction for a famous hotel and comes after a string of Chinese purchases of U.S. and European real estate.
The symbolism of a Chinese company buying a New York landmark brings to mind memories of Mitsubishi Estate's 1989 purchase of Rockefeller Center. That deal, which ended up in bankruptcy court, came to symbolize the folly of Japanese overspending on U.S. assets. It is too easy to simply say history will repeat. But at such a price, Anbang will need a developer's acumen to make the deal succeed.
The grand though aged Waldorf needs a renovation, a task that will add substantially to Anbang's sticker price. Such an investment could be paid back with higher room rates or proceeds for the sale of rooms converted to condominiums. That Hilton itself preferred to skip the risk is a sign of the task ahead.
Still, an agreement for Hilton to manage the flagship property for another century ensures Anbang has expertise to guide it in the effort. The sale continues Hilton's exit from the capital-intensive business of owning real estate and its push to concentrate on sweeping up management and franchise fees from property owners.
Insurance companies have tended to invest in real estate as a diversification from bonds. With steady rental income and predictable costs, property can serve those ends. The problem is that hotels are most susceptible to economic downturns, with leases essentially running one night, compared with a decade in an office building filled with credit-rated tenants.
Anbang is paying $1.4 million per room, a substantial sum but less than the per-room price for recent transactions for the nearby Plaza Hotel and Carlyle Hotel. The deal is about 33 times the Waldorf's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the year through June. That compares with 15 times Hilton's overall Ebitda and a similar multiple for hotel property owner Host Hotels Corp. A premium is surely deserved for the impeccably located Waldorf. But to make it work, Anbang's use of debt will be critical.
-- Alex Frangos
Glencore's Approach Lacks Iron
If timing is everything in trading, Glencore has misfired with its July approach to Rio Tinto.
True, Rio's confirmation that the trader-cum-miner expressed interest in a merger actually highlights the Anglo-Australian miner's strategic quandary. Rio has focused on cutting costs and improving free cash flow. It has pledged to raise returns to shareholders next year.
It isn't clear what happens next. Rio, which already has rejected pursuing conversations with Glencore, isn't diversified: 80% of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization come from iron ore, a commodity whose price is under serious pressure.
Even so, absent a chunky premium, there isn't much right now to bring Rio to the negotiating table.
The iron-ore price is down 40% this year, but the jury is still out on whether the strategy of the largest iron-ore miners is based on logic or, as Glencore Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg claims, on lunacy. Rio, BHP Billiton and Vale have all expanded their output, adding tons into an oversupplied market. Boosting production to force higher-cost rivals out of the market, though, could mean the market returns to an effective oligopoly.
Meanwhile, Rio's future could be as a cash cow, shoveling dirt at its low-cost iron-ore pits. Thanks partly to Rio's expansion of its Pilbara operations in Western Australia, its cash flows should continue growing through iron ore's weakness. Mr. Glasenberg may scoff but brownfield iron-ore growth also offers enviable returns: Bank of America Merrill Lynch put the return on capital employed for BHP Billiton's latest expansion at 100%, even before the miner reduced the costs involved.
The risk is that iron ore crashes, vindicating Mr. Glasenberg's view of the world, and Rio, stymied by its lack of diversification, shelves plans to buy back shares. In that case, Glencore would likely find shareholders receptive.
If Glencore returns, Rio's board should insist on a proper takeover premium. Glencore may have the diversified portfolio and the vaunted management team, but Rio has the stronger balance sheet, the higher-quality resource base and the more profitable assets.
That would leave Glencore to make the case for the value of a combination. Running Rio Tinto's iron ore through Glencore's marketing machine could be worth $1 to $2 per metric ton, reckons Citi. But that could be tougher in an oversupplied market. Moreover, digging and shipping 300 million tons of dirt, compared with Glencore's iron-ore trading of perhaps 40 million tons, may not lend itself to clever arbitrage as well as other commodities.
Yes, there would be some cost savings. But Rio already has chopped nearly $4 billion in costs. The synergies from putting together Glencore and Rio's coal operations in Australia's Hunter Valley could be found through a joint venture, without creating a $160 billion company and paying a control premium.
Putting a price on Rio would allow Glencore to force the issue. Otherwise, it is the iron-ore market that will determine if and when this deal's time will come.
-- Helen Thomas
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
