<title:>By Aries Poon   
<Date:>14 October 2014
<Content:>
HSINCHU, Taiwan -- At Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., hundreds of engineers have joined a newly instituted overnight shift. Their task is to come up with advanced technology to mass produce some of the world's most intricate computing chips in the shortest time possible.
Pressure is looming over the world's biggest contract chip maker by revenue, which makes the computing brains for smartphones and other gadgets. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing neck-and-neck to pack more computing power into each chip.
Taiwan-based TSMC is preparing for an uphill battle in the coming year as rivals' more-advanced chips are set to hit the market sooner. Intel Corp., the world's biggest semiconductor maker, is entering the so-called chip foundry business -- making chips based on others' designs -- to expand the use of its plants and has secured clients such as Panasonic Corp. and Altera Corp. Morris Chang, TSMC's 83-year-old chairman, is also preparing for a leadership succession, trying to plan a smooth transition to his two co-chief executives.
"This is a war. I am not leaving anything to chance," Mr. Chang, who founded the company in 1987, said in an interview at TSMC's headquarters, located in the south of Taipei.
TSMC was one of the first major chip makers to move to 20-nanometer chip process technology last year. A chip's transistor components and the spaces between them are measured in nanometers -- a billionth of a meter. The smaller the space between components, the more powerful the chip.
That transition allowed TSMC to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for a massive order from Apple Inc. for iPhones. Thanks to Apple, which is seeing strong demand for its smartphones, TSMC's revenue rose to a record US$6.88 billion in the third quarter, its second consecutive quarterly high. On Thursday, the company is expected to report a 40% jump in net profit, according to analysts' estimates, likely setting a new high.
Still, Mr. Chang concedes that both Intel and rival Samsung will be months ahead of TSMC in adopting the next-generation chip process technology. TSMC plans to mass-produce its chips with 16-nanometer technology from the third quarter next year.
By comparison, Intel, the world's biggest chip maker by revenue, has said devices using its 14-nanometer chips will be available in October, while Samsung plans to mass produce chips on the same technology by the end of this year.
"TSMC would lose some orders to Samsung next year because of the lag, but we hope to recoup some of the lost businesses in 2016," he said, noting that TSMC plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC's design in the fourth quarter of next year.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
