<title:>By Andrew Bary 
<Date:>18 October 2014
<Content:>
A cash-rich Samsung Electronics is one of the most attractive technology stocks in the world.
The South Korean maker of cellphones, tablets, memory chips, display screens and televisions is out of favor in the investment community because of concerns about plunging profits in its mobile-phone division. Investors, however, may be overreacting because the company remains highly profitable thanks to the strength in its semiconductor business. It¡¦s the world¡¦s leading maker of memory chips.
Samsung shares (005930.Korea), which are mainly traded in South Korea, recently fetched 1.12 million won each, or about $1,060, based on an exchange rate of 1,060 won to the dollar. The company has a market value of about $150 billion. Fans point to a flush balance sheet with $60 billion of net cash and investments, equal to 40% of its market value.
Samsung trades for just eight times projected 2014 earnings per share and for about five times earnings excluding the cash. There are few giant companies in the world with such a low valuation. The S&P 500 index trades for 16 times estimated 2014 earnings.
¡§The semiconductor division and the cash are worth more than the current market cap,¡¨ says Mark Newman, an analyst with Bernstein Research. ¡§That means that investors are getting for free the world¡¦s largest maker of handsets, the leading display business and the biggest and most profitable TV producer.¡¨ He has an ¡§outperform¡¨ rating and a price target of 1.65 million won, or nearly 50% above the current share price.
Mr. Newman thinks Samsung¡¦s mobile-phone business should stabilize due to the company¡¦s favorable cost position, world-wide distribution and hardware advantages.
One of Samsung¡¦s strengths is its industry-leading display business. Samsung is expected to be first to market¡Xprobably in 2016¡Xwith cellphones offering foldable displays that open into tablets. Samsung¡¦s innovative technology should soon be on display in the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge ¡§phablet¡¨ whose screen wraps around one edge of the device.
Buying Samsung can be hard for U.S. investors. The company has no U.S.-listed shares and no plans for such a listing. Two brokerage firms, Fidelity Investments and Merrill Lynch, allow their customers to buy Samsung¡¦s Korean shares, but UBS and Morgan Stanley don¡¦t.
Samsung also has London-listed shares traded in dollars. Each share, now around $530, is equal to half a Korean share. However, the London shares are geared toward U.S. institutions, making it tough for retail investors to buy them. Non-U.S. investors, however, face few restrictions on the London shares.
Investors can get diluted exposure to Samsung through the iShares MSCI South Korea Capped exchange-traded fund (EWY), which has a 20% weighting in Samsung. The Korean market is historically inexpensive, trading for about 12 times forward earnings.
Andrew Bary is an associate editor for Barron¡¦s. For more stories, see 
