<title:>By In-Soo Nam 
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL¡XHyundai Motor Co.¡¦s third-quarter net profit fell 28%, hurt by a stronger local currency, work stoppages by unionized employees and weak local sales of its new flagship Sonata sedan.
¡§We expect uncertainty surrounding the auto market, including volatile foreign exchange rates, to continue for the time being. If the currency stabilizes, our earnings could improve in the fourth quarter, when we also plan some new-car launches,¡¨ the company said.
The world¡¦s fifth-biggest auto maker, when combined with affiliate Kia Motors Corp., has been struggling to compete with rivals as the stronger won, particularly against a weaker yen, has made its exports more expensive. Earlier this year Hyundai set its annual sales growth target at just 4%, its most conservative in over a decade.
The won is hovering around a six-year high against the yen, which has been depressed by Tokyo¡¦s ultra-easy monetary policy since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office. Against the dollar, the won was on average 7.6% stronger in the third quarter, compared with a year ago.
Japan and South Korea are major competitors in the global market for shipments of electronics, automobiles and other products, making the exchange rate between the two nations vital for companies like Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co.
Hyundai said Thursday that its third-quarter net profit dropped to 1.62 trillion won ($1.53 billion) from 2.25 trillion won a year earlier.
Operating profit fell 18% from a year earlier to 1.65 trillion won, while revenue rose 2.2% to 21.28 trillion won.
Its bottom line was also hurt by union strikes.
Hyundai, which has one of the country¡¦s most militant labor groups, has been hit by strikes in all but four years of its union¡¦s nearly three decade history. Hyundai¡¦s 47,000 union members¡Xabout 80% of the firm¡¦s workforce¡Xhave held a series of stoppages from August this year.
Those strikes and similar labor actions at affiliate Kia. have led to lost production of more than 20,000 cars worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
More recently, Hyundai¡¦s workers downed their tools last month to protest a successful bid by the company and its two affiliates to buy a plot of land in southern Seoul for $10 billion¡Xmore than three times its appraised value. The winning bid sent the company¡¦s into a sharp decline, and they briefly traded at a four-year low of 157,500 won on Wednesday.
After the earnings announcement, Hyundai¡¦s stock surged 5.9% to end Thursday at 171,000 won, as Hyundai executives said fourth-quarter profits are expected to improve because the won¡¦s strengthening has slowed.
Also, Lee Won-hee, the company¡¦s chief financial officer, said it plans to increase dividend payments and is also considering an interim dividend from next year, to enhance shareholder value.
Still, Hyundai faces growing challenges as foreign rivals encroach on its home turf.
Free-trade deals that have halved tariffs on foreign cars in South Korea helped lift imported auto sales to nearly 15% of total sales so far this year, from below 2% a decade ago.
As part of its efforts to attract customers, Hyundai launched its revamped flagship midsize sedan, called the Sonata, in April.
Sales of the new Sonata, however, nearly halved in September from 11,904 in April as drivers increasingly favor sport-utility vehicles.
