<title:> Shareholders approve Samsung Heavy & Samsung Engineering merger
<Date:>SEOUL (Reuters) - The merger of Samsung Heavy Industries (010140.KS) and Samsung Engineering (028050.KS) was approved by shareholders of both companies, a Samsung Heavy spokesman and Samsung Engineering spokeswoman said on Monday.
<Content:>
About two-thirds of air-bag deaths in the 1990s were attributable to children riding in the front seat, a report by the chief U.S. auto-safety regulator said. A Page One article on Thursday about government scrutiny of U.S. air-bag recalls incorrectly said it was more than 90%.
(See: "Air Bag Safety Measures Probed" -- WSJ October 25, 2014)
---
Labels were reversed in some editions on a chart with an article on Friday about the narrowing gender gap aiding Republicans. In a WSJ/NBC News poll on congressional preference among likely voters, 49% preferred the Republican candidate in September versus 46% in October. Among men, the figures were 56% in September versus 52% in October; among women, the figures were 50% versus 51% for Democratic candidates and 42% versus 41% for Republican candidates. The labels for September and October were reversed in each case.
---
At the end of the 19th century, industrialized countries began flash-heating milk to remove dangerous bacteria, in a process known as pasteurization. A Page One article on Tuesday about a crackdown on raw-milk vending machines in Europe incorrectly said pasteurization was used on milk since its discovery in 1864.
(See: "Lactose Intolerance: Crackdown On Raw-Milk Machines Steams Fans --- In Europe, Restrictions on Dispensers Have Farmers Frothing; Models That Moo" -- WSJ October 21, 2014)
---
Microsoft Corp. made less than a year earlier from its mobile-phone operating software business, as Android-phone makers like Samsung Electronics sold more of their inexpensive phones, meaning lower fees for Microsoft. In some editions Friday, a Marketplace article on Microsoft's results incorrectly said its drop in mobile-software revenue was because of a shift to lower-cost Windows smartphones.
---
Readers can alert The Wall Street Journal to any errors in news articles by e-mailing wsjcontact@wsj.com or by calling 888-410-2667.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
