<title:>By In-Soo Nam   
<Date:>13 October 2014
<Content:>
When Hyundai Motor Co.'s board convened last month to discuss the company's planned land purchase in Seoul, its five independent directors sought details.
"Does Hyundai need the land for sure? Why is the company going to buy it in an expensive Gangnam area?" an outside director said he asked at the meeting. "Is there no other choice?"
Executives replied that Hyundai needed to house about 30 of its affiliates under one roof to improve efficiency. The conglomerate also would build an automobile theme park at the new location to enhance its brand image, they said.
One thing they didn't provide: the price.
The $10 billion cost, three times the property's assessed value, was disclosed only after the nine-member board unanimously endorsed the plan. The figure was made public after the deal was done.
"Company executives were desperate to persuade outside directors to approve it at the board meeting. For Hyundai, the land wasn't just an investment, it was something the company couldn't afford to lose," said an independent director who attended the meeting. "In that case, price didn't matter."
The deal was the latest example of how South Korea's conglomerates, known as chaebols, are raising the ire of shareholder activists seeking to change corporate decision making.
Investors have long complained about a lack of transparency and outside oversight at many chaebols, which generally are controlled by founding families through complex cross-shareholdings. Top managers typically wield power in major corporate decisions, such as capital spending, despite having relatively small shareholdings in key operations.
After Hyundai's purchase was announced, angry investors who thought the deal was a waste of money dumped the company's stock. Shares of Hyundai and the two affiliates that joined the purchase, Kia Motors Corp. and Hyundai Mobis Co., each fell more than 10% in a few days after the announcement. The declines reduced their combined market value by more than the amount paid for the land.
"This is a classic example of Korea's weak corporate governance and poor oversight by outside directors. Hyundai wanted the land and directors rubber-stamped it," said Kim Sang-jo, a professor at Hansung University and the executive director of Solidarity for Economic Reform, a group that advocates for improved corporate governance. The group, which has an undisclosed minority stake in each of the three companies, obtained the minutes of their board meetings.
According to the minutes, Hyundai Chairman Chung Mong-koo wasn't at the meeting, Mr. Kim said. Mr. Chung had privately pushed for the land purchase for years but never took the matter to the board for discussion, an outside director said. It was common for Mr. Chung to skip board meetings, some outside directors said.
"It only took 30 minutes for the board to discuss and approve such a big deal. That means the meeting was just a formality," Mr. Kim said. Board meetings usually last about two hours, one of the outside directors said.
Hyundai declined to comment on the decision-making process or Mr. Chung's activity, and he wasn't available for comment.
Mr. Kim said Hyundai's process reflected typical practice at chaebols.
Independent directors, usually scholars, lawyers and former government officials, tend to go along with what company owners want because the directors are chosen by committees composed of the businesses' family members and company executives, Mr. Kim said. He proposes a system in which shareholders can evaluate the performance of outside directors and hold them responsible for decisions that lead to stock declines.
Chaebols have played a significant role in South Korea's economy, which is Asia's fourth-largest. Wanting to rebuild the nation quickly after the 1950-'53 Korean War, the government drew up blueprints for industrial expansion and offered generous favors, such as loan guarantees to big businesses, which helped fuel rapid growth.
Nam Sung-il, a professor of economics at Sogang University, said family-run business structures have merits, such as quick decision making on tough issues and long-term investments by owners that can see a company through crises.
But weak corporate governance caused the nation to become one of the most vulnerable to the 1997-'98 Asian financial crisis, observers said. Daewoo group and 10 other businesses collapsed between 1997 and 1999. The government in 1998 ordered companies to strengthen outside oversight by filling almost half of the board seats with outsiders, adopting a model from U.S. and Europe after an outcry that inappropriate oversight by directors was partly responsible for the fallout.
Korea's corporate-governance scores slipped the most among 944 surveyed companies because of the rise in intergroup transactions and poor disclosure, according to a recent report by brokerage firm CLSA and the Asian Corporate Governance Association.
While Korean companies such as Hyundai and Samsung Electronics Co. have become household names world-wide, their stocks still trade at much lower multiples than those of their peers from elsewhere. The benchmark Korea Composite Stock Price Index traded at 10.9 times its price-to-earnings multiple last year, compared with 17.4 for the U.S., 14.7 for Japan and 15.8 for Hong Kong, according to Korea Stock Exchange.
In an effort to rein in chaebol influence, President Park Geun-hye's government has offered tax incentives to conglomerates that simplify their ownership. The government in July banned the creation of new cross-shareholdings, although it didn't address existing structures.
"In the first few months of President Park's administration, she appeared to take a stance against chaebols under the name of economic democratization, but there have been no significant changes in corporate structures at big conglomerates," said Chae Yi-bae, a researcher at the Center for Good Corporate Governance. "Frankly, I don't remember any governments in the past that have succeeded in reforming chaebols."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
