<title:> Morning MoneyBeat Asia: For U.S. Stocks, a ¡¥Quiet Melt¡¦
<Date:>Market Snap:?At the New York close: S&P 500 down 0.2% at 1964.82. DJIA down 0.1% at 16991.91. Nasdaq Comp down 0.5% at 4454.80. Treasury yields declined; 10-year at 2.425%. Nymex crude oil up 0.7% at $90.34. Gold up 1.2% at ...
<Content:>
SAMSUNG
Phone Maker Pays
$1 Billion in Royalties
In a glimpse of the financial stakes in the smartphone-patent wars, Microsoft Corp. said Friday that Samsung Electronics Ltd. paid the software giant more than $1 billion for an annual fee to use Microsoft technology in Samsung phones.
Samsung sells smartphones and tablets powered by Google Inc.'s Android software. But Microsoft has said some of its patents are included in Android technologies, such as methods for displaying multiple windows in a Web browser. Therefore, Samsung and other smartphone makers pay royalty fees to Microsoft for each Android device they sell.
Neither Samsung nor Microsoft have disclosed previously the size of these royalty payments.
Samsung hasn't responded to Microsoft's complaint. A spokeswoman for the company declined to comment Friday.
-- Shira Ovide
---
EBAY
Executives Will Get
Big Bonuses from Split
EBay Inc.'s plan to spin off its PayPal payment unit will prove costly.
The company said in a filing Friday that PayPal's new chief, Dan Schulman, will have a base salary of $900,000, receive equity awards over the next year of $18 million and be eligible for as much as $29.1 million in pay for benefits he may be forfeiting from his former job at American Express Co.
Mr. Schulman's base salary is $200,000 more than the previous head of the division who left earlier this year. The pay will rise to $1 million after the split is complete, expected for later next year.
The executive is eligible for an annual bonus of as much as $1.68 million before the split and $2 million after the split.
Devin Wenig, who will rise to CEO of eBay from his current post as head of the marketplace division, will see his compensation rise too.
His base salary will rise to $900,000, from $800,000, and will jump to $1 million following the split. He is eligible for bonus payments of as much as $1.68 million before the breakup and $2 million following, eBay said.
-- Greg Bensinger
---
FEDEX
Court Sides with Kansas
Drivers in Work Dispute
The Kansas Supreme Court on Friday issued an opinion that hundreds of truck drivers who delivered packages for FedEx Corp. in Kansas were employees of the Memphis, Tenn.-based express delivery company and not its independent contractors.
According to the Kansas court opinion, 479 Kansas drivers sued FedEx alleging they were improperly classified as independent contractors under Kansas law. The drivers are seeking retroactive costs and expenses, as well as overtime.
The state court issued the opinion in response to a request from the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which is considering appeals in 20 class-action suits, including the one in Kansas. All those had been decided in FedEx's favor.
FedEx said in a statement that it fundamentally disagrees with the ruling. "At the time, we are considering available options in response to the court's decision," the company said. It added that the driver model at issue is no longer in use.
-- Laura Stevens
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
