<title:> Xiaomi Flash Sales Prove Popular in India
<Date:>Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, which has overtaken Apple and Samsung in China, is working its way into the Indian market using sudden online sales and high-end handsets priced at close to cost.
<Content:>
TAIPEI -- After Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. logged its most profitable quarter, executives remain upbeat about how Apple Inc. and other mobile-device makers will propel its revenue even higher in coming years.
TSMC, the world's largest contract chip maker by revenue, said Thursday that net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 totaled 76.34 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$2.51 billion). It was up 47% from NT$51.95 billion a year earlier, beating the company's previous record of NT$59.7 billion in the second quarter and exceeding analysts' estimates. Revenue rose 29% from a year earlier to NT$209.05 billion, also a record.
Although the explosive growth of global smartphone and tablet sales has waned, TSMC's increasing market share because of technological advances has helped the company boost its earnings at rates stronger than most chip makers.
Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho predicted revenue in the current quarter of between NT$217 billion and NT$220 billion -- as much as 5% higher than the previous quarter and possibly another record. It is largely in line with analysts' estimates.
"If we take away the contribution from 20-nanometer [a process technology adopted by the facility that produces microprocessors for iPhones], the fourth-quarter revenue will probably be down by [a rate] close to double digits," Mark Liu, one of the company's two chief executives, said during an investor conference in Taipei Thursday.
Revenue from the 20-nanometer facility will rise to 20% of total revenue in the fourth quarter, from 9% in the third quarter, the company said.
Last year, the Taiwan-based chip maker was among the first to migrate to the 20-nanometer chip-process technology from the less advanced 28-nanometer process. The transition allowed it to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for the order from the iPhone maker. TSMC started shipping chips to Apple in late June.
This lead lifted not only TSMC's revenue. The boost from Apple is also apparent among many Taiwanese companies that churn out components for the Cupertino, Calif., company. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., commonly known as Foxconn, and Largan Precision Co. have also reported strong earnings because of business from Apple.
Besides Apple, TSMC also makes microprocessors for hundreds of other clients including Qualcomm Inc. More than half of TSMC's third-quarter revenue came from producing chips for smartphones and tablets.
At the same conference, TSMC's other chief executive, C.C. Wei, said the company expects to start mass-producing with the next-generation 16-nanometer process technology by the end of the second quarter of next year. It will be about one quarter earlier than the company's previous forecast, but will still be months behind Intel Corp. and Samsung.
"Right now, more than 1,000 engineers are working on that. Our experience in the 20-nanometer process helps us ramp up the 16-nanometer much faster than we expected," Mr. Wei said, adding that revenue from this process technology will kick in during the fourth quarter of 2015.
In a bid to regain the lead in technological advances, TSMC Chairman Morris Chang said in a recent interview that the company has committed a "blank check" to developing the finer 10-nanometer process technology "in the shortest time possible." The Taiwanese company plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC's design in the fourth quarter of next year.
Ms. Ho said the company plans to spend more than US$10 billion next year to develop and build advanced facilities. The company has earmarked US$9.6 billion as capital expenditures for this year.
Capacity will grow 12% this year, higher than the company's previous target, Ms. Ho said. Capacity expansion will likely be at a similar rate next year, she added.
A surprise earnings warning last week from Microchip Technology Inc. has recently clouded the outlook for the semiconductor sector.
While many chip makers don't share the pessimism of the Arizona maker of computer chips, analysts say weaker-than-expected demand for electronics remains a possibility amid the uneven economic growth of China and the U.S.
"Demand from our customers doesn't validate the comment from Microchip," said Mr. Liu. "Demand from China is still normal, maybe a little deviation from seasonal [levels], but demand for fourth-generation [mobile application] and telecom infrastructure remains aggressive."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
