<title:>Asian Morning Briefing: U.S. Stocks Drop Again
<Date:>13 October 2014
<Content:>
MARKETS AT A GLANCE
(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
SNAPSHOT
U.S. stocks tumbled in volatile trading following last week・s sharp selloff, reflecting investors・ growing anxiety. The Treasury market was closed for a holiday. The dollar weakened on guarded Fed signals. Global oil prices dropped to a near four-year low amid OPEC discord. Gold futures rose on safe-haven buying.
OPENING CALL
With a light Asian data calendar Tuesday, Singapore・s central bank may grab some attention as it releases its latest monetary-policy statement. The announcement, incidentally, comes on same day Singapore・s government releases its third-quarter advance GDP estimate. Barclays expects the Monetary Authority of Singapore to keep its currency stance unchanged. Meanwhile, economists, an average, see GDP advancing at a 2.8% pace year over year in the third quarter, up from the 2.4% pace seen in the second quarter.
EQUITIES
U.S. stocks took another tumble amid volatile trading and following last week・s sharp selloff, showing the growing anxiety of investors.
Energy companies were among the biggest decliners, as Brent oil futures, the international benchmark, dropped to a four-year low after some of the biggest oil exporters indicated they would maintain current production levels even as prices fall.
Among the worst performers were exploration-and-production companies and oil services companies, including EOG Resources, which fell 6.8%, and Halliburton, which declined 7.4%.
Early in the day, traders said investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of the deluge of corporate-earnings reports to be released this week. In the quarterly reports investors are looking for solid revenue figures and guidance as reassurance that the U.S. economy is on track despite global growth concerns, traders and strategists said.
：People want to see what the earnings picture is going to look like,； said Keith Bliss, senior vice president at brokerage Cuttone & Co.
In the absence of hard news about market fundamentals, traders said, investors instead reacted to afternoon rumors of Ebola spreading.
：The market hates uncertainty and this is the ultimate uncertainty. I don・t know how to handicap it,； said Seth Setrakian, co-head of trading at First New York Securities. ：People are looking at headlines and rumors and would rather sit out the hurricane and come back and play when there・s sun again.；
He said the fears were weighing on shares of airline companies. United Continental Holdings dropped 7.3%, while Delta Air Lines fell 6.1%.
Dramatic price swings ruled the market last week, with stocks facing their most volatile stretch since 2011 on concerns about the pace of global growth, but traders and strategists say as this week continues corporate earnings should be the focus. Among the big companies expected to report earnings are J.P. Morgan Chase on Tuesday, Netflix on Wednesday and Google on Thursday.
Marc Doss, regional chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank, which manages $179 billion, said he is looking for positive comments in quarterly reports from U.S. financial companies to help boost confidence in the U.S. economy and lift the equities market. In addition to J.P. Morgan, Citigroup, and Wells Fargo are also expected to report earnings Tuesday before the market opens.
：The lifeblood of our economy is still banking and finance,； Mr. Doss said. ：This week・s financials earnings will hopefully show that the U.S. economy is still healthy and there is still risk-taking.；
Also playing into Monday・s move lower is the S&P 500 index falling below its 200-day moving average, a market timing indicator.
：The 200-day moving average is what a lot of people use as a benchmark for general health of the market,； says Frank Longman, managing director of equity trading strategies at Brean Capital. When an index falls below this trend line, ：it tends to wake people up.；
In corporate news, shares of CSX Corp rose 5.9% after The Wall Street Journal reported that Canadian Pacific Railway approached the railroad operator about merging.
Auto retailer Lithia Motors・ shares fell 21% after it warned its third-quarter earnings will be lower than expected, in part because of higher selling costs.
In Asian trading Monday, stocks accelerated their decline, with Taiwan and the Philippines each tumbling more than 2.5%, as worries over slowing global growth weighed on shares.
FOREX
The dollar weakened against the yen, euro and most developed-market currencies in light trade after the Federal Reserve signaled a cautious approach to raising interest rates over the weekend.
Mounting concerns over global growth, which last week pummeled stock markets and pushed down bond yields, have clouded the market・s timeline for the Fed・s first increase in interest rates in more than eight years. Over the weekend, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said at the International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington that the impact on the U.S. economy of weaker-than-expected foreign growth could cause ：the Fed to remove accommodation more slowly than otherwise.；
：The markets have been turning more cautious on the U.S. economy and the Fed, and the dollar・s a little weaker from that,； said Vassili Serebriakov, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas.
Investors await September U.S. retail-sales numbers on Wednesday and the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Oct. 28-29.
In other trade, the dollar fell against the Australian and New Zealand dollars, as well as most emerging-market currencies as strong September trade data in China boosted investor confidence enough to move into assets perceived as risky.
BONDS
The cash Treasury market was closed Monday for Columbus Day.
Looking ahead, this week・s run of U.S. data may give an inconclusive picture, analysts at Commerzbank said.
：The data are likely to remain noisy with strong data in the previous month set to correct lower (retail sales, regional Fed surveys) and previously weak data set to correct higher (housing starts, industrial output),； they said.
COMMODITIES
Global oil prices dropped to near a four-year low, with investors and traders bracing for more declines after some of the world・s biggest crude exporters signaled they would keep production steady despite the slide in prices.
Discord increased over the weekend among the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, lowering traders・ expectations that the cartel would collectively cut oil production to boost prices at its next meeting in November.
On Monday, Brent oil, the international benchmark fell 1.5%, to settle at $88.89 a barrel, the lowest closing price since December 2010. U.S. oil prices slipped 0.1% to $85.74, a 22-month low. The price drop has been a boon to U.S. drivers, who are seeing the lowest gasoline prices of the year, and has hammered shares of energy companies.
Many investors set low odds for oil to pull out of its swoon without unified action from OPEC. Global production has soared, fueled by increasing output from U.S. shale-oil drilling, while demand has been lackluster. Oil prices have tumbled more than 20% since mid-June.
Gold advanced to its highest level in nearly four weeks as worries about global economic growth weakened the dollar and spurred investor appetite for a haven.
TODAY・S HEADLINES
Iliad Drops Plan to Acquire T-Mobile US
Iliad said it has dropped plans to acquire a controlling stake in T-Mobile US from Deutsche Telekom, ending a four-month pursuit that would have thrust the French company onto the North American market.
Fiat Chrysler to Tap Debt Markets, CEO Says
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne said the company intends to tap debt markets to raise capital to fund a costly new-model plan and may look to sell equity to ensure it has extra cash to weather an unexpected market slowdown. Shares finished off about 1% in their NYSE debut.
Apple to Roll Out iPhone 6 in 36 New Markets
Apple said it will roll out the iPhone 6 in 36 new markets, including China and South Africa, by the end of the month. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in 69 countries and territories by the end of October.
Russia Signs Business, Finance Pacts With China
Russia and China signed some 40 agreements spanning energy, finance and technology as the Kremlin looks to deepen its strategic ties with its eastern neighbor to counter isolation from the West.
Hong Kong Protesters, Opponents Clash
Student protesters faced their biggest challenge in their occupation of key areas of Hong Kong as first police and then masked men and taxi drivers tore down their barricades and tents to open a key road to traffic.
J.C. Penney Names Home Depot・s Ellison CEO
J.C. Penney named Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison to become its chief executive next year to succeed Myron ：Mike； Ullman III, ending its long search for a new leader.
GE Finance to Acquire Milestone Aviation
General Electric agreed to pay $1.78 billion for the world・s largest helicopter leasing company, tying its own big interests in the aviation and energy sectors and highlighting a fast-growing specialty finance area that has attracted interest from some of the largest names in private equity.
Canadian Pacific Approached CSX About Merger
Canadian Pacific Railway approached CSX about a combination that would unite two of North America・s largest railroad operators, as the boom in North American energy reshapes the railroad industry.
Fierce Fighting Resumes in Syrian Kurdish town
Kurdish militia defending the Syrian border city of Kobani turned back an attempted suicide bombing by Islamic State forces, as street fighting edged closer to the city・s heart, Kurdish city officials said.
TSMC Pressured by Samsung
Pressure is looming over Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world・s biggest contract chip maker by revenue. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing to pack more computing capability into each chip.
RECENT DJ DOMINANTS
Former E*Trade Unit Lays Off Several Employees, Including CEO, Sources Say
GTCR in Talks to Buy Gorkana Group
Battery Fires on Planes Spur New Proposals
Abigail Johnson Named CEO of Fidelity Investments
GTCR in Talks to Buy Gorkana Group
TODAY・S CALENDAR
(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)
2350 JPN Sep Money Stock, Broadly-defined Liquidity
2350 JPN Sep Corporate Goods Price Index
0000 SIN Singapore Monetary Policy Statement
0000 SIN Q3 Advance GDP Estimates
0030 AUS Sep NAB Business Survey
0200 NZ Sep NZ Government bonds held for non-residents
0300 SKA Aug Money Supply index L
0300 SKA Sep Economic Trends, including household loans, money supply index
0430 JPN Aug Revised Retail Sales
0630 IND Sep Monthly WPI (all commodities)
0645 FRA Aug Balance of Payments
0645 FRA Sep CPI
0800 ITA Sep CPI
0800 FRA Oct IEA Oil Market Report
0830 UK Aug ONS House Price Index
0830 UK Sep UK producer prices
0830 UK Sep UK monthly inflation figures
0900 GER Oct ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment
0900 EU Aug Industrial Production
1000 FRA Q2 OECD Quarterly Employment Situation
1130 US Sep NFIB Index of Small Business Optimism
1145 US ICSC-Goldman Sachs Chain Store Sales Index
1255 US Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index 
