<title:> Seoul to Slow Down Traffic Signals for Elderly
<Date:>As South Korea ages more quickly than most other countries on the planet, it・s doing something new to help those in the twilight of their lives: slowing down changes in traffic signals to allow more time to cross the road.
<Content:>
SEOUL--Samsung Electronics Co. said Tuesday the U.S. National Security Agency approved a number of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker・s struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs. The company has long believed that winning certifications from top security authorities will help persuade corporate clients to switch to Samsung phones from those made by rivals like BlackBerry Ltd.
Samsung・s mobile security platform, called Knox, allows users to have a virtual ：container； within their smartphones, which separates work and personal apps.
Samsung said the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.・s Boeing Black phone.
In June, Samsung said five of its Knox-installed Galaxy smartphones and tablets received approval from the U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency. The approval added the devices to a list of options for officials. The Galaxy S4 and Galaxy Note 3 smartphones are also on this list.
Whether these approvals translate into big deals for Samsung in the enterprise market remain a question, analysts said. In May, a Samsung executive said that 87 million devices come with Knox installed. But among them, just 1.8 million are actively using Knox.
Samsung had explained that the number of clients is rising and the focus will be initially on having a wider distribution. Samsung declined to provide updated figures on Galaxy devices running the Knox system.
Earlier this year, Samsung said its mobile-security platform would be integrated into the next version of Google Inc.・s Android operating system as the two companies bid to increase Android・s appeal among security-minded businesses and governments.
The world・s biggest smartphone maker by shipments said earlier this month its third-quarter operating profit likely fell as much as 62% from a year earlier, hit by weak smartphone sales. This would mark its fourth consecutive decline in operating profit and its steepest year-over-year decline in the past five years.
Samsung, South Korea・s biggest company by market capitalization, is facing stiff competition from Chinese handset makers that are aggressively introducing less costly phones. In the high-end smartphone market, it is battling Apple Inc., which last month unveiled new iPhones with bigger screens that are popular with consumers.
