<title:> Where to Buy the New iPhone 6 in India
<Date:>On Friday, iPhone junkies in India will get their latest fix when the newest versions of Apple Inc.'s smartphones, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, hit the market.
<Content:>
Europe's largest telecom providers are gearing up for a battle in the lucrative race to connect things as diverse as cars, homes and utilities to smartphones and other wireless devices.
The "Internet of Things" market is the catchall term for an electronic device that can be wirelessly connected to the Internet. AT&T Inc. and rival Verizon Communications Inc.'s Verizon Wireless have led the charge for U.S. telecommunications operators, and have seen niche Internet of Things services such as parcel tracking expand into global businesses.
Now, after their core telecom revenue growth has been outstripped by "machine-to-machine" businesses, and with traditional revenue streams being pressed by tough market conditions, European telecom companies view the Internet of Things as a prime source of new revenue.
"We are one of the few parts of the organization that grows," says Telefonica SA's global Internet of Things chief, Surya Mendonca.
According to network-systems company Cisco Systems Inc., the value of that market is expected to grow to $19 trillion over the next 10 years, as networks for sectors such as traffic systems, shipping, rail freight and industrial manufacturing take shape. Meanwhile, the number of Internet of Things-focused developers is likely to leap to four million in 2020 from 300,000 this year, says telecom group Interoute.
It is at this junction that the telecom companies are skirmishing with technology giants such as ARM Holdings PLC, Samsung Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Both telecom and technology are levering "hardware, the ubiquitous nature of connectivity, big data and analysis" in a face-off to grab expanding revenue linked to the Internet of Things, says Chris Gray, analyst at U.S. software company Red Hat Inc.
Google, Apple and Samsung have made recent inroads into homes. This year, Google bought Nest Labs, Apple is launching HomeKit and Samsung acquired SmartThings to allow users to control home settings and sync devices.
Telecom companies have significant skin in the game. Internet of Things technology works on sensors and SIM cards inside devices linked to data servers over cellular networks. Data is sent over radio waves via the SIM, sometimes via another radio transmitter. External software applications like smartphone apps pick up the signals and use the data to control devices -- for instance, a car telling a garage to open.
The need for comprehensive mobile network coverage to power the connections between devices means the telecom companies, which are investing billions of dollars to upgrade mobile infrastructure, are in prime position.
For Telefonica, Vodafone Group PLC, Orange SA and Deutsche Telekom AG, the importance of not being left behind in the race for "machine-to-machine" business means deal-making for Internet-enabled connected services and devices is increasing, analysts say.
The connected-cars sector is one of the most active.
Telefonica has a partnership with electric-car maker Tesla in major European markets and connects General Motors Co. vehicles through the car group's OnStar communications unit. Orange also works with Tesla, in France, alongside other deals with PSA Peugeot Citroen and Renault SA. Orange SA is also launching smartphone service Orange Drive next year, which gives users voice-activated radio controls and tips on efficient driving.
Vodafone has signed up with Germany's BMW AG and, in August, bought Italian car-services firm Cobra Automotive. Deutsche Telekom also maintains a partnership with BMW, and last Friday joined China Mobile Ltd., the world's largest mobile provider, in a connected-cars venture.
Smart homes are another battleground. Last month, Telefonica launched a trial of AT&T's home-security, automation and energy-management platform in Europe. Deutsche Telekom has built on the 2011 launch of smart-home platform Quivicon to control appliances through partners such as Samsung and wireless-speaker maker Sonos.
Orange -- not to be left behind by the offerings of Google, Apple and Samsung -- will launch Homelive, incorporating applications with thermostats and movement detectors, later this month.
Telecom companies are also monitoring utilities, hoping to capitalize on the market as energy regulation tightens. Last year, Telefonica struck a 15-year deal valued at GBP 1.5 billion ($2.4 billion) to connect smart meters in the U.K., while Vodafone is working with energy supplier Npower to install smart meters in the country.
Orange is working with France's Electricite de France SA to track electricity consumption, through a sensor inserted into the meter. The service is expected to be introduced in France next year.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
