<title:> AT&T Scores Most Effective Wireless Ad of 2014 So Far
<Date:>Of the four biggest advertisers in the wireless services sector, AT&T scored the most effective ad in the category so far this year, according to data from Ace Metrix.
<Content:>
Emerging markets may not be the wilderness they once were for "socially responsible" investors.
Most investors lured by the glint of growth in markets like Brazil, South Africa and China accept the greater political, currency and liquidity risks in those markets, compared with more developed markets. But so-called socially responsible investors -- who seek to marry long-term competitive financial results with social objectives -- have to tangle with yet another risk in emerging markets: the relative lack of disclosure and universal reporting standards, which could make it harder to dig out unethical corporate behavior.
In recent years, data available for vetting investments in developing markets has become more sophisticated and more widespread. Many funds perform due diligence and use shareholder activism to push for greater disclosure and more ethical corporate practices in emerging markets.
Much debate has swirled in academic and investor forums over whether limiting investments to suit social objectives affects performance. But contrary to modern portfolio theory -- which suggests portfolio constraints would restrict performance -- experts haven't found clear evidence indicating as much for socially responsible funds over the long term.
Socially responsible investing -- more recently called "ESG" investing, for environmental, social and governance -- has been marketed for decades. Common filters avoid "sin stocks" of tobacco, alcohol and gambling companies. An example with global resonance was the widespread divestiture of holdings in South Africa in the 1980s to protest apartheid.
There were 116 funds incorporating social criteria in August, up from 77 in 2003, according to fund tracker Morningstar Inc. Total assets grew to $61.46 billion from $23.49 billion over the same period. A handful of these funds have emerging-markets exposure of 65% or more, such as DFA Emerging Markets Social Core Equities (DFESX).
Meanwhile, companies in emerging markets have started to adopt better disclosure practices to draw investment, and data providers have sharpened focus on social metrics to gauge whether local investments are meeting ESG standards.
"Ten years ago, that level of disclosure wasn't sufficient to measure outcomes or performance," says David Harris, ESG director at index provider FTSE. Recently, FTSE and another index provider, MSCI Inc., have built more ESG-specific indexes to help measure the performance of companies that incorporate ESG practices.
Both index providers also have developed relationships with emerging-markets exchanges. Exchanges in countries like South Africa and Brazil have led the charge among peers to use ESG indexes as a means of drawing investors.
Moreover, a push by emerging-markets companies toward integrated reporting -- which weaves reports on issues like sustainability and corporate governance alongside traditional financial accounting -- has better equipped ESG investors to evaluate their investment options, says Laura Berry, executive director of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility.
Still, it takes "boots on the ground," to sort it all out, Ms. Berry says. "There are so many opportunities for opacity and obfuscation that I can't overemphasize the power of the folks who are there."
Challenges also arise "when these companies aren't listed on U.S. stock exchanges and their disclosures aren't in English," says Stephanie Cuttler Aument, a sustainability analyst at Calvert Investments.
That extra work sometimes costs investors. Fees for ESG funds "skew toward the high end" of fund fees, though the sampling is small, says David Kathman, an analyst at Morningstar. The average sustainable and responsible investment fund is more expensive than 60% of its peer group of similar funds, according to Morningstar.
The bigger worry for some is whether restricting investment options will limit a fund's performance. Experts haven't been able to isolate whether social screens help or hurt performance given the variety of other factors at play, such as manager skill, investor sophistication and the small sample size.
"You're more constrained," says Gerardo Zamorano, a director of investments at Brandes Investment Partners, a subadviser for Timothy Plan Emerging Markets Fund (TPEMX). "But you can still put together a pretty strong portfolio."
Generally speaking, Mr. Zamorano says, investors should be encouraged by the improving fundamentals in emerging markets over the past 15 years, such as shrinking debt-to-GDP ratios and low share valuations compared with developed markets.
Indeed, many ESG investors see long-term opportunity in emerging markets, arguing that better governance will improve performance.
Some funds that focus on ethics concerns visit company boardrooms and operations, and form alliances with like-minded local groups to root out trouble spots and monitor progress. Boston Common Asset Management has worked to improve many corporate practices, including worker safety in Bangladesh after the Rana Plaza factory collapse there killed more than 1,100.
Some efforts take years to yield results. Boston Common in 2005 approached South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. about improving disclosure of its use of so-called conflict minerals, which are mined in areas of unrest and produce revenue that could fund local violence. By 2012, Samsung improved disclosure and had adapted the industry code of conduct, says Lauren Compere, managing director at Boston Common.
Samsung declined to comment.
---
Ms. Rosenthal is a Wall Street Journal news editor in Hong Kong. Email her at rachel.rosenthal@wsj.com.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
