<title:> The Morning Download: CIOs Driving Digital Leadership, but Not as Much as They Think
<Date:>The Morning Download comes from the editors of CIO Journal and?cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning.?Send us your tips, compliments and complaints. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each ...
<Content:>
Samsung Electronics Co. and Rio Tinto PLC were two of the main gainers among Asian stocks on Tuesday as markets closed mixed, with Hong Kong・s Hang Seng Index up 0.5% as the government and student protesters continued to seek a format for talks.
Samsung・s shares rose as much as 3% in early trading in Seoul after the company forecast that its third-quarter operating profit more than halved from a year earlier. Samsung・s shares had already been battered on expectations weak smartphone sales would hit profit. The shares closed up 1.0%.
：Expectations have been lowered to a point where a 4-trillion-won operating profit would relieve investors,； said Lee Seung-woo, an analyst with IBK Securities in Seoul.
He added that local brokerages have been selling Samsung shares heavily recently and they don・t have much of the stock in their portfolios, while foreign investors seeking long-term gains are also buying Samsung following the recent slide.
Korea・s Kospi closed up 0.2% at 1972.91.
In Australia, Rio Tinto was up 4.3%, after the company said it rejected a takeover proposal by Glencore as it wasn・t in the best interest of shareholders. The possible takeover inspired a rally in large mining stocks. BHP Billiton Ltd. rose 1.7% and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. added 4.2%.
That wasn・t enough to outweigh broad-based declines among banks and retailers in Australia. National Australia Bank Ltd. fell 1.0% and Commonwealth Bank of Australia lost 0.5%, pushing the S&P ASX 200 down 0.2% to 5284.20.
Stocks in Australia have fallen around 6% since the start of September, as slowing growth in China squeezes prices for commodity exports such as iron ore.
The performance of stock markets elsewhere in Asia was mixed.
Hong Kong・s Hang Seng Index rose 0.5% to 23422.52. Brokerage IG said working conditions in Hong Kong are returning to normal, but the cost of the protests won・t be known until trade balance numbers and other activity gauges are released in early November.
Japan・s Nikkei Stock Average slipped 0.7% to 15,783.83 amid a weaker dollar. Among exporters, industrial robot maker Fanuc Corp. slipped 1.1%, air conditioner maker Daikin Industries Ltd. fell 1.9%, and auto maker Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. lost 1.4%. Earlier the Bank of Japan said it would maintain its position on monetary policy, as expected.
Ross Kelly contributed to this article.
