<title:> 5 Things to Read Today: iMacs, Not Big Macs, Flights From Ebola-Stricken Nations Restricted, And More
<Date:>#1: McDonald's Profit Plunges; Coke Announces Billions in Cost Cuts
<Content:>
ARM faces another leg down.
With its stock down by one-quarter so far this year, U.K. chip designer ARM Holdings moved on Tuesday to reassure investors that royalty revenues¡Xits bread and butter¡Xare in good shape. Investors disagreed, a situation not helped by the fact that ARM¡¦s shares were still trading at a heady 27 times 2015 earnings. The stock plunged another 5%.
ARM, which reported quarterly results on Tuesday, is doing all the right things: It is hanging on to its 95% market share in intellectual property for mobile chips while doubling its estimated market share in enterprise networks and servers to about 10% this year. The number of ARM-designed chips embedded in machine-to-machine devices rose by 55% year-over-year, accounting for about one-third of the company¡¦s total shipped in the third quarter.
But any progress may not be fast enough to outrun deteriorating trends, including a slowdown in the smartphone industry that may continue into 2015. ARM is highly leveraged to the latter. For every percentage point of growth in smartphone demand, the company estimates its underlying royalty revenue increases by twice as much. Of the processors on which ARM earns a royalty, about half go into mobile devices.
Sanford C. Bernstein estimates that the high end of the smartphone market has flattened from a 23% growth rate in 2013. Low-to-mid-range smartphone markets should see faster growth in the next few years, but the potential royalty opportunity for ARM is only about one-quarter to half as much per chip, the company estimates.
ARM¡¦s royalty revenue increased by about 5.5% for the first three quarters of this year compared with 23% for the same period in 2013. ARM stands to start benefiting from strong sales of the iPhone 6, but that will likely be partially offset by disappointing shipments of Samsung Electronics¡¦ high-end smartphones.
Royalty revenues have missed consensus estimates for the past five quarters. Although the shortfall has been small, investors are running out of patience. Royalty revenue per chip fell 8% in the latest quarter, year over year. If it keeps declining, ARM will have to turn to volume to deliver growth. This is where its high stock multiple leaves little room for error.
Continued growth in nonmobile revenues should eventually help ARM ride out cycles in the smartphone market. For now, the stock doesn¡¦t look like a smart bet.
