<title:>By Jonathan Cheng   
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
SEOUL -- The trading debut of South Korea's ubiquitous mobile-messaging app maker Daum Kakao this month made an instant multibillionaire out of one of its founders, Kim Beom-soo.
But the 48-year-old Mr. Kim, whose stake in the company is now valued at roughly $3.2 billion, is just the most prominent in a growing circle of Korean startup founders who have found success selling their young companies in recent months.
Now through their own venture-capital firms, they are reinvesting their wealth in a new wave of young Korean companies, helping turn the country's startup scene into one of Asia's most active.
In recent months, South Korea's technology scene has also drawn attention from big Silicon Valley companies like Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., whose founder Mark Zuckerberg has visited the country twice in two years, including last week. Google is opening a 20,000-square-foot startup center in Seoul to nurture domestic startups and give them more global exposure.
In the past, South Korea's startups struggled to connect with users outside the country. But the current crop of young entrepreneurs, many of whom have studied outside Korea, are starting companies with global ambitions. They are also getting more help from government programs that match private investments with public grants.
South Korea is beginning to see signs of a dynamic startup environment, says Jimmy Rim, a 35-year-old venture capitalist who worked for the Korea-focused venture-capital arm of Japan's SoftBank Corp. before leaving in 2012 to start a venture-capital firm called K Cube Ventures with Mr. Kim.
"When I started out in 2007, the atmosphere was very bad," Mr. Rim says. "There weren't that many investors at the early stage; venture capitalists weren't willing to invest, or they even wanted collateral from the companies to get their money out. There were no potential buyers."
That is no longer a problem. So far this year, venture-capital investment in Korea's tech industry has reached $198 million, more than four times that of 2012, according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal. That is a much more dramatic rate of growth than in the larger neighboring countries of Japan and China even though, in value terms, it still lags behind Japan's $370 million and China's $3.3 billion.
Through one program, called TIPS, or Tech Incubator Program for Startups, South Korea's Small and Medium Business Administration magnifies startup investments made by venture capitalists whose firms have won designation as qualified investors. For example, if an investor makes a $10,000 investment, the government can pitch in with a fivefold grant of $50,000 -- up to a maximum of $500,000.
Yoon Se-myung, a senior official who helps oversee the program, says the policy was modeled on one run by Israel's government, and could provide a blueprint for how the South Korean government -- eager to help nurture an economy that relies less on its conglomerates -- doles out money to startups in the future.
Relying in part on leverage from the government, Mr. Kim's K Cube Ventures has invested in companies like Frograms Inc., maker of an online movie-recommendation engine, and Greenmonster Inc., whose journaling service Flava has attracted 1.2 million users. Mr. Kim declined to be interviewed for this article.
K Cube Ventures has also invested in an interest-based community website called Vingle, started by Changseong Ho and his wife Jiwon Moon, which now has four million monthly visitors from 105 countries and has content in 26 languages from Indonesian to Portuguese.
Last September, Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon, who started their own company while earning their master's degrees in the U.S., sold Viki, the video-sharing website they founded in 2007, to Japan's e-commerce operator Rakuten Inc. for $200 million.
Now, Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon's fund, called TheVentures, makes investments of its own, of between $50,000 and $200,000, in domestic startups. For example, they have invested in Bridge Mobile, a startup that builds a platform on free Internet-based mobile-phone calls, and houses the company in a shared workspace in Seoul's Gangnam district.
Meanwhile, Ryu Jung-hee, an engineering Ph.D. who like Mr. Ho passed up a company job to start a string of companies, sold Olaworks Inc., a facial-recognition company that he founded in 2006, to Intel Corp. for about $30 million in 2012.
In April, Mr. Ryu plowed his earnings into a startup accelerator called FuturePlay, targeting companies that center around "deep technology," built on doctoral-level engineering, like facial- and voice-recognition technology.
FuturePlay's strategy is to persuade midcareer engineers to leave cozy jobs at the country's large technology firms, Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc., to pursue their startup dreams -- in part, by offering them the security of a year's salary while building their company in-house at FuturePlay, before spinning off their ideas as a separate legal entity. FuturePlay takes an equity stake in the new companies.
FuturePlay has two lawyers, including an intellectual-property specialist, on staff to protect its startups' ideas from the get-go, says Mr. Ryu.
One of the biggest advantages Messrs. Ho and Ryu can offer, they say, is expertise in going global -- a key aim for companies that TheVentures and FuturePlay invest in.
For Mr. Ho and Ms. Moon's Viki, which allows volunteer translators to subtitle dramas and television programs for fans in their own countries, for example, the founders had a global vision from the beginning. At the end of 2013, Viki said it had more than 26 million viewers each month.
---
Min Sun Lee contributed to this article.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
