<title:>By Eric Pfanner and Megumi Fujikawa   
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO -- The award of the Nobel Prize in physics to three scientists born in Japan stands to boost the morale of the country's beleaguered electronics industry, showing how obscure Japanese companies that specialize in parts and materials can still retain a technological edge.
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on Tuesday honored the researchers for inventing the blue light-emitting diode, which has made possible lighting that is more energy-efficient than incandescent bulbs. The blue diode, which first appeared in 1992, was needed to produce white light by combining it with red and green diodes, which already existed.
One of the Nobel winners, Shuji Nakamura, was working at a Japanese maker of lighting equipment, Nichia Corp., when the breakthrough occurred. The other two, Isamu Akasaki and Hiroshi Amano, helped Japanese parts supplier Toyoda Gosei Co. develop LED technology.
Nichia, which Dr. Nakamura left in 1999 in a dispute over compensation for the research, is the world's largest maker of LEDs, with $2.09 billion in sales last year, according to research firm IHS.
But Nichia's share of the $16 billion LED market was 13% last year, down from 21% in 2005, according to IHS. And while Japan is home to three of the 10 largest suppliers, Nichia, Toyoda Gosei and Stanley Electric Co., the country's share of the market is little more than 20%.
"Japanese companies are losing share because newcomers keep joining the market," said IHS analyst Lee Kun Soo. The rivals include Taiwan's Everlight Electronics Co., U.S.-based Cree Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and Seoul Semiconductor Co. of South Korea, and several Chinese companies. "Japanese companies are going for the higher end, B-to-B applications," Mr. Lee said.
LEDs can be used for simple household lamps or outdoor lighting, where they are slowly replacing incandescent bulbs. LEDs accounted for 15% of sales of household light sources last year, up from 4% in 2009, according to research firm Euromonitor. "The publicity generated by this award is likely to boost consumer interest in LED lamps," Euromonitor said. Consumer acceptance has been faster in Asia and continental Europe than in the U.S. and the U.K., the firm said.
Japanese companies have retained an edge in LEDs' most lucrative applications, such as automotive headlights and backlights for smartphone screens.
Nichia says it has 23% of the market for high-brightness LEDs, which are used for smartphones and other high-tech purposes.
Apple Inc.'s website lists Nichia as a supplier. The U.S. company didn't respond to a request for comment, but analysts have said the Japanese company makes LEDs that are used in Apple's iPhones. Closely held Nichia, which is based in remote Tokushima prefecture on the island of Shikoku, declined to identify its clients.
While some Japanese electronics firms, such as Panasonic Corp., make consumer LED lighting, Nichia sells only to other businesses. As a result, it may benefit less from the Nobel buzz than the makers of consumer LED products. Japan's Sony Corp. three weeks ago forecast a loss of $2.15 billion for the fiscal year through March, much more than it had previously predicted.
In a sign of the shrinking presence of the Japanese electronics industry, the nation's biggest consumer technology trade show, now under way outside Tokyo, has drawn the smallest number of exhibitors since the show's inception in 2000.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
