<title:> Netflix Earnings Dissapoint
<Date:>Summary: Netflix shares drop on their recent earnings results; Paypal keeps growing; HBO giving cord cutters what they want; Amazon announces seasonal hiring intentions and a look at the Galaxy Note 4. WSJ's Mathew Passy on those stories ...
<Content:>
I was convinced Samsung was off its rocker when I saw the first Galaxy Note phablet in 2011.
While most smartphone makers were expanding phones to comfortably fit in a human hand, Samsung decided to release one closer in size to a Times Square billboard. And what better way to navigate that vast screen than with a stylus the size of a toothpick?
Of course, I was the crazy one. People started buying Samsung¡¦s kooky, oversized creation¡Xa lot of them. Other companies stopped laughing and started making their own. Now, almost exactly three years later, even Apple has bowed to the pressure, releasing an iPhone with a phablet-class 5.5-inch screen.
Samsung doesn¡¦t plan to lag behind those who have followed in its Sasquatchian footsteps, especially not its fiercest rival in Cupertino, Calif. The Galaxy Note 4, which hits Verizon, AT&T and Sprint stores this week for $300 with two-year contract, has a higher-resolution 2560x1440-pixel, 5.7-inch display and much improved hardware design. It also has new software tricks that take better advantage of the roomy screen space than the competition.
It¡¦s wrong to call the Note an oversized smartphone at this point. It¡¦s a pocketable computing device with serious multitasking power. But while Samsung is further ahead on big-screen software features than any competitor, the other half of the software story isn¡¦t as rosy. The Note 4 still lacks that all-important mobile essential: an intuitive, cleanly designed user interface.
Better Hardware, Brilliant Display
My years of cringing at the Galaxy Note¡¦s design are over.
No more shiny backing that shows my slimy fingerprints, no more kid-toy plastic with faux leather stitching. Instead, an aluminum frame surrounds the Note 4, making it feel like a well-made device. The fakeness of the latest synthetic-leather back is justified by being incredibly smooth and soft¡Xand easier to grip than an iPhone 6 Plus.
The design is far from perfect. The chamfered edges of the phone can be sharp, (I prefer the curves of the iPhone 6 Plus and the new Moto X), the bezel¡¦s subtle lines don¡¦t match the rest of the aesthetic and, unlike the Galaxy S5, the Note 4 isn¡¦t rugged or waterproof.
Don¡¦t get me wrong, Samsung has done what I thought was impossible: created a phone that looks and feels good.
Like the iPhone 6 Plus, the Note 4 outlasts smaller-screen phones because it houses a larger battery. After a 14-hour day of heavy use, including navigation and snapping lots of photos, I hit the 5% battery mark¡Xand kept going until bedtime using the ¡§ultra power-saving mode.¡¨ By disabling lots of services and turning everything you see black and white, it can squeeze 24 more hours out of a Note 4 using only 10% of the battery, says Samsung.
In a challenge to see who would drop first, I cranked the brightness up on both the Galaxy Note and the iPhone 6 Plus and streamed video. They both lasted 8? hours.
Remember Ellen DeGeneres¡¦s Oscar selfie seen ¡¦round the world? She and Bradley Cooper, who snapped the shot, used last year¡¦s Note, and they¡¦d probably be more impressed with the improved 3.7-megapixel front-facing camera and its new selfie tricks.
Not only would all those celebrity faces now look crisper, but Brad would¡¦ve had an easier time just tapping the heart-rate sensor on the rear of the phone to enable the shutter. Jared Leto¡¦s face may not have been chopped off if the wide selfie mode was enabled. Though if not done carefully, the feature can incorrectly stitch photos and render faces grotesquely distorted.
The 16-megapixel rear camera also does selfies, using facial recognition or voice command to capture your mug. The less self-absorbed will be more impressed with the quality of its vibrant, well-balanced shots, and how well digitally zoomed-in shots now look.
Like on the iPhone 6 Plus, optical image stabilization helped capture sharper nighttime and moving shots. However, I found the iPhone 6 Plus¡¦ faster shutter and auto focus combined with better low-light shots, gave it a slight edge in the camera department.
Here¡¦s the twist: The iPhone 6 Plus may take better photos, but photos (and everything else) appear sharper and more vibrant on the Note¡¦s gorgeous display. That¡¦s because Samsung¡¦s Super AMOLED screen has about 1.5 million more pixels than the iPhone 6 Plus¡¦s 5.5-inch 1920x1080-pixel display. Text looks crisper and blues, greens and reds are more vivid, though not necessarily as natural.
Powerful Software Just Shy of Phabulous
With software features that take advantage of all that screen real estate, Samsung shows it¡¦s got more phablet smarts than Apple and others. The result is a more productive device, much closer to that of a tablet or laptop.
Like on previous Notes, you can put two apps side by side or on top of each other, but now you can drag text between the windows. Only some apps support the feature, but I was able to highlight a portion of a colleague¡¦s article in the browser and drag it into an email.
You can turn the main Android home screen into a pseudo computer desktop with a feature that lets you pop out small windowed versions of select apps. You aren¡¦t going to want a mini email app open all day, but it¡¦s helpful for at-a-glance information. On a recent trip, I put up a tiny Google map showing my destination.
I still can¡¦t get excited about the S Pen stylus, despite the fact it¡¦s more precise and pressure sensitive than before. I generally use the styli I was born with to navigate the screen because they¡¦re always on, and I can type faster with my fingers than I can write with a pen. However, new tricks, such as leaving yourself ¡§action memos¡¨ on the home screen, or highlighting multiple photos by dragging the pen across them, will appeal to people who prefer writing and drawing.
The disappointment is that the Note 4¡¦s tricks are masked by a user experience I can only describe as ugly. The neon green and teal, those bright, tacky icons¡Xit all makes the phone hard to look at. And that¡¦s before wading through the third-party apps and promotional widgets that Samsung loves to pre-load. Despite the phone¡¦s quad-core processor, I experienced sporadic slowdowns, stuttering in apps and too many of the dreaded ¡§This app has stopped¡¨ messages. I blame the bloatware.
I wish Samsung wasn¡¦t bucking the current trend of Android phone makers striving for more polished, uncluttered design. The new Moto X uses a clean beautiful version of Android, and Google¡¦s new Nexus 6, also built by Motorola, will have the next version of Android¡Xand an even bigger screen than the Note 4. Meanwhile, iOS continues to be as polished as it comes.
Yet no other phone maker can deliver such a clear vision of why the future will be written on these smartphone-tablet hybrids. It may not meet my high aesthetic standards, software-wise, but multitasking on that big, beautiful display makes the Note feel more productive and powerful than any other phablet out there. Even the iPhone 6 Plus. This is the best phone I have seen from Samsung in a long time¡Xmaybe ever.
