<title:> Smartphone repair company B2X steps up expansion with Indian deal
<Date:>By Eric Auchard FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Smartphone users won't recognise the name B2X, but if your battery dies or your screen breaks, the odds are that the company will be working behind the scenes when you seek a repair. For customer ...
<Content:>
NSA Approves Some Mobile Devices
Samsung Electronics Co. said the U.S. National Security Agency approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker・s struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs. The company has long believed that winning certifications from top security authorities will help persuade corporate clients to switch to Samsung phones from those made by rivals like BlackBerry Ltd.
Samsung・s mobile security platform, called Knox, allows users to have a virtual ：container； within their smartphones, which separates work and personal apps.
Samsung said on Tuesday that the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.・s Boeing Black phone.
Min-Jeong Lee
EU Charges Honeywell,
European Union regulators filed formal charges Tuesday against Honeywell International Inc. and DuPont Co. over their agreements to produce the only car coolant that meets new EU rules on greenhouse-gas emissions.
The European Commission, the EU・s top antitrust regulator, said deals between the two companies to produce the chemical, known as R-1234yf, ：may have limited its availability and technical development, in breach of EU antitrust rules.；
The move steps up a probe opened in 2011 that targeted Honeywell and DuPont・s pact to produce a new refrigerant for vehicle air-conditioning systems, which was developed to replace a refrigerant that had fallen foul of new EU anti-global warming rules.
If the companies are found guilty of illegal collusion, they could face fines of up to 10% of annual sales.
Tom Fairless
German Company in Talks to Sell Hearing-Aid Unit
Germany・s Siemens AG is in advanced talks to sell its hearing-aid business, which could be valued at up to ａ2 billion ($2.55 billion), according to people familiar with the matter.
Private-equity firm Permira Holdings is bidding for the hearing-aid unit by itself, while rival EQT Partners, based in Stockholm, may form a consortium with hearing-aid maker GN Store Nord A/S to acquire the assets, the people said.
Bloomberg previously reported that EQT is the front-runner to acquire the business, but Permira and Denmark・s GN Store Nord were also interested bidders.
An outright sale of the hearing-aid unit isn・t a foregone conclusion, however, given that bankers previously said Siemens・ asking price of around ａ2 billion is expensive.
It is unclear whether bidders are willing to pay that, one of the sources said.
Eyk Henning and Christopher Alessi
Improved Sales Don・t Rev Up Profit for Bike Maker
Harley-Davidson Inc. reported strong retail sales of its motorcycles and better-than-expected profit for the third quarter.
World-wide retail sales at Harley dealers in the latest quarter grew 3.8% from a year earlier, a performance that analysts considered strong because 2013・s third quarter was unusually robust, benefiting from the introduction of the Rushmore line of motorcycles. The latest figures also were a huge improvement from the second quarter, when retail sales were flat.
Despite the improved retail sales, Harley・s profit fell 7.8% in the third quarter to $150.1 million, or 69 cents a share, down from $162.7 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue, including financial services, slipped 3.1% to $1.30 billion.
James R. Hagerty
