<title:> A Look at What Happens When Art and Smartphones Meet
<Date:>Six top Indonesian artists, one challenge: create a masterpiece on a mobile phone.
<Content:>
HSINCHU, Taiwan¡XAt Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., hundreds of engineers have joined a newly instituted overnight shift. Their task is to come up with advanced technology to mass produce some of the world¡¦s most intricate computing chips in the shortest time possible.
Pressure is looming over the world¡¦s biggest contract chip maker by revenue, which makes the computing brains for smartphones and other gadgets. As mobile devices become smaller and more powerful, TSMC and rivals are racing neck-and-neck to pack more computing power into each chip.
Taiwan-based TSMC is preparing for an uphill battle in the coming year as rivals¡¦ more-advanced chips are set to hit the market sooner. Intel Corp., the world¡¦s biggest semiconductor maker, is entering the so-called chip foundry business¡Xmaking chips based on others¡¦ designs¡Xto expand the use of its plants and has secured clients such as Panasonic Corp. and Altera Corp. Morris Chang, TSMC¡¦s 83-year-old chairman, is also preparing for a leadership succession, trying to plan a smooth transition to his two co-chief executives.
¡§This is a war. I am not leaving anything to chance,¡¨ Mr. Chang, who founded the company in 1987, said in an interview at TSMC¡¦s headquarters, located in the south of Taipei.
TSMC was one of the first major chip makers to move to 20-nanometer chip process technology last year. A chip¡¦s transistor components and the spaces between them are measured in nanometers¡Xa billionth of a meter. The smaller the space between components, the more powerful the chip.
That transition allowed TSMC to produce more powerful chips than most rivals at lower costs, and helped it beat out Samsung Electronics Co. for a massive order from Apple Inc. for iPhones. Thanks to Apple, which is seeing strong demand for its smartphones, TSMC¡¦s revenue rose to a record US$6.88 billion in the third quarter, its second consecutive quarterly high. On Thursday, the company is expected to report a 40% jump in net profit, according to analysts¡¦ estimates, likely setting a new high.
Still, Mr. Chang concedes that both Intel and rival Samsung will be months ahead of TSMC in adopting the next-generation chip process technology. TSMC plans to mass-produce its chips with 16-nanometer technology from the third quarter next year.
By comparison, Intel, the world¡¦s biggest chip maker by revenue, has said devices using its 14-nanometer chips will be available in October, while Samsung plans to mass produce chips on the same technology by the end of this year.
¡§TSMC would lose some orders to Samsung next year because of the lag, but we hope to recoup some of the lost businesses in 2016,¡¨ he said, noting that TSMC plans to deliver a prototype 10-nanometer chip based on ARM Holdings PLC¡¦s design in the fourth quarter of next year.
To migrate to finer process technology, chip makers typically invest billions of dollars in capital expenditure. Since 2009, TSMC has spent around $10 billion every year building advanced facilities. It has also increased its portion of revenue for research and development to about 8%.
But rivals are just as aggressive. Samsung last week announced plans to invest $14.7 billion in a new facility in South Korea that is slated to begin mass production of advanced chips in the second half of 2017. And in nearby China¡Xthe world¡¦s largest consumer of semiconductors, according to McKinsey & Co.¡Xthe government has pledged up to $170 billion over the next five to 10 years to build up its domestic semiconductor industry, which analysts say could become a threat to Taiwanese chip makers longer term.
¡§The 10-nanometer [project] is a must-do for the company. It¡¦s going to be a lot more expensive than previous generations of technology, in both research and development and capital requirement,¡¨ Mr. Chang said.
The technological race isn¡¦t the only thing that is keeping Mr. Chang up at night. He is a rare top executive who is still actively running a $20 billion technology company at his age.
In November 2013, Mr. Chang promoted Mark Liu and CC Wei as co-chief executives, hoping one of them will become his successor ultimately. He handed over research, sales and client relations to them, but he is still overseeing what he calls the hardest parts of running a chip business¡Xstrategy, capital investment, pricing and capacity allocation.
Mr. Chang said the transition is going to be gradual and could take years. To begin with, he has assigned 20 to 30 major clients to his two co-CEOs, and put them in charge of major decisions involving them.
Mr. Chang¡¦s first attempt to retire in 2005 didn¡¦t succeed. Even though he named his prot?g? at the time, Rick Tsai, as his successor, the company was soon hit by rising competition and then, in 2009, by the global financial crisis. Mr. Chang was forced to return in the summer of that year and made the bold decision to quadruple TSMC¡¦s capital spending.
¡§I do care about TSMC a great deal, that¡¦s why I came back five years ago. So that¡¦s part of my succession issue. I want to pass it on to somebody who also cares.¡¨
Corrections & Amplifications
In November 2013, Mr. Chang promoted Mark Liu and CC Wei as co-chief executives. An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the month of the promotions as January of this year.
