<title:> Speculation Heats Up as Kim Jong Un Remains Out of View
<Date:>What¡¦s happened to Kim Jong Un? It¡¦s a question on the mind of every North Korea observer and increasingly the international media as speculation spreads that the dictator¡¦s prolonged disappearance may herald some sort of a major shift in ...
<Content:>
LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - After two successful films, Lionsgate's "Hunger Games" franchise is attracting an unexpected group of promotional partners for its next installment.
Mazda, Doritos and Whole Foods Market have joined Samsung to launch campaigns around "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1," which will fly into theaters in Nov. 21.
Samsung already has kicked off its campaign, having provided fans the chance to watch the first teaser trailer for the film at San Diego Comic-Con, showcasing the footage on its new tablet, of course. Company also built a lavish experience to bring the film to life by displaying character posters, costumes, President Snow's white chair (from the film) and pastries from Peeta's Bakery.
While none of the brand partners will be featured in the new movie - no, District 13's citizens won't be munching on Doritos - their tie-ins will make it seem as if they're part of "The Hunger Games" world.
For example, Mazda will enable fans to submit designs for a hovercraft via Tumblr, with each one triggering a donation to one of the company's charitable partners. The automaker is the film's official automobile sponsor of the U.S. premiere.
Mazda also will team up with Doritos to sponsor the film's Our Leader the Mockingjay app, available through OurLeaderTheMockingjay.Co.In, the Apple and Android app stores.
Naturally, "Mockingjay - Part 1" characters and film imagery will appear on Doritos bags beginning this month. When scanned with mobile devices, the packaging will unlock exclusive content through the film's app. Company's also launched microsite Unlock District 13, that is running a sweepstakes.
Similarly, Mazda will offer up exclusive content for the movie when a Mazda logo is scanned from a brochure, print ad or on Mazda's U.S. website using the app.
Also enlisting its charity programs around "Mockingjay - Part 1" is Whole Foods.
The grocery chain will donate $1 to its Whole Planet Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to alleviating global poverty, each time its in-house Courage of One juice brand is purchased.
Effort is a continuation of the charity programs Lionsgate launched around the "The Hunger Games" franchise's previous films.
"We are proud of our association with not-for-profit organizations like Whole Planet Foundation and to continue to build on our relationships with 'The Hunger Games' franchise partners Feeding America and World Food Programme," said Tim Palen, Lionsgate's chief marketing officer.
Francis Lawrence returns to direct the series' third film, starring Jennifer Lawrence, from a screenplay by Peter Craig and Danny Strong.
The novel on which the film is based is the third in a trilogy written by Suzanne Collins, with over 65 million copies in print in the U.S. alone.
The first "Hunger Games: Catching Fire" had CoverGirl and Subway as partners. 
Released: 2014-10-8T23:09:16.000Z
