<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
Samsung Electronics Finds
Strength in Product Family
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung's runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung's leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung's mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company's operating profit last year, up from just around a quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short-lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company's forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers that rely on the same Android operating system Samsung uses.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung's components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
In logic chips, Samsung lost a major customer when Apple switched over to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing for its iPhones. But Samsung is ahead of TSMC in the next generation of smaller-transistor chips, and analysts predict it will win back some Apple orders next year. Similarly in displays, Samsung is at the technological forefront with organic light-emitting diode technology.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung's mobile business is worthless, which it isn't, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value -- a discount to rivals, which trade at an average of nearly three times -- and adding Samsung's cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock's true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle.
Similarly, Mr. Lee's heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Samsung Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung's smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren't reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
-- Aaron Back
The Clock Ticks as Yahoo
Searches for Some Answers
Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer has bought herself some time. But the clock is still ticking.
Yahoo reported better-than-expected third-quarter revenue and profit on Tuesday. Revenue rose 1% versus a year earlier. That is paltry for a tech company but still better than year-over-year declines seen in some recent quarters.
Notably, the company broke out its mobile revenue for the first time, saying it came in at $200 million in the quarter. It also forecast gross mobile revenue of $1.2 billion this year.
That is a major shift. And Yahoo said mobile, social, native and video ads rose a combined 80% year over year. The gains appear to be helping offset declines in Yahoo's traditional display-ad business.
Yet they also may raise eyebrows. Yahoo offered few details on how it accomplished such a sizable swing. The company previously had declined to break out mobile revenue, saying it wasn't material to results.
As well, Yahoo's $1.2 billion forecast amounts to nearly 28% of analysts' consensus estimates for 2014 revenue. That seems to require Yahoo to shift revenue to mobile at an even faster pace in the fourth quarter.
Perhaps more important, Yahoo gave few answers on how it planned to use the net $6.3 billion in cash it got from selling shares in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding when that company went public last month. Instead, Ms. Mayer defended her acquisition track record and highlighted the $7.7 billion in shares Yahoo has bought back during her tenure.
Yahoo also kicked the can down the road on its strategy for reducing the tax bill on the stakes of Alibaba and Yahoo Japan it continues to own.
Things at Yahoo don't seem to be getting worse. But it is too soon to call them better.
-- Miriam Gottfried
Overheard
When the cat's away, the mice will trade.
Recent years haven't been kind to stock analysts. Fair-disclosure rules led investors to see less value in Wall Street research. Regulatory scrutiny gave firms more reason to rethink research. From 2000 to 2008, 43 brokers closed research departments. But for chief executives and other corporate insiders looking to trade their companies' shares, this was a boon, suggests research from Wei Wu, a graduate student at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
Mr. Wu looked at trading behavior of insiders at companies with five or fewer analysts when, as a result of research-department closures, coverage was reduced. He found for each analyst a company lost, returns reaped by insiders increased. Mr. Wu's favored explanation: Important information that would otherwise have been transmitted to investors was lost, increasing trading opportunities for insiders.
Another possibility is that with fewer analysts monitoring the company, insiders felt they had a freer hand to trade.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
