<title:> Global Telecom Conference in Busan Stirs Ebola Fears
<Date:>Concern is mounting about a possible outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus just days before the opening of a global telecommunications conference in Busan.
<Content:>
SEOUL¡XWhen Souaib Hanaf arrived just after noon on a recent Sunday at Nexon Arena, just off a busy road in the Seoul neighborhood of Gangnam, several dozen young men had already been waiting outside the e-sports stadium three hours to get the best seats for the afternoon¡¦s big video game championship.
Mr. Hanaf, a 27-year-old French-Moroccan pro gamer who rode show-jumping horses as a teenager, was there to deliver English play-by-play commentary for the finals of the third season of Korea Dota 2 League, or KDL.
Two Korean professional gaming teams¡XMVP Phoenix and Pokerface¡Xbattled in Dota 2, a real-time strategy fantasy game where each of the team¡¦s five players set out to destroy their opponent¡¦s base for a prize of $10,000.
¡§[I] say what¡¦s happening, give some hype to the game, get the spectators excited about it,¡¨ said Mr. Hanaf.
Inside the nearly 1,700-square-meter theater, owned by the South Korean video game company Nexon, the professional gamers, who looked to be in their early 20s and sported team tracksuit pants, t-shirts, and sneakers, got their hair and make-up done. Some fans came in costumes.
Dota 2, developed by the U.S. company Valve Corp., is relatively new to Korean e-sports and has a small presence¡XNexon published it there in October 2013, three months after its official release in the U.S., where it is much more popular.
That final¡Xwhich MVP Phoenix won¡Xwas just a glimpse of what¡¦s expected to be a much more raucous scene this weekend: The sold-out final where a record audience of about 40,000 is expected for Riot Games¡¦ fourth annual international event, the League of Legends World Championship, at Seoul¡¦s Sangam Stadium, a venue of the 2002 FIFA World Cup.
League of Legends¡Xa fantasy strategy game developed by U.S.-based Riot Games, the bulk of which is owned by Chinese company Tencent Holdings Ltd.¡Xis the world¡¦s dominant e-sport. In South Korea alone, the game has around 40% of the country¡¦s online players, according to Gametrics, a website that tracks games played at the nation¡¦s popular Internet caf?s, known as PC bangs.
The tournament matches up the world¡¦s top eight LoL teams. This year¡¦s final will feature China¡¦s Star Horn Royal Club and South Korea¡¦s Samsung White team, which is sponsored by Samsung Electronics.
South Korea and China are the only two countries with their own divisions in LoL tournaments.
¡§[Seoul] is kind of well-known as the birthplace of e-sports,¡¨ said Dustin Beck, vice president of e-sports at Riot Games.
While other regions are catching up, East Asian players remain so dominant that some teams are being stacked with Chinese and Korean players¡Xone Chinese team even moved to North America, where it would face a less competitive regional field.
Buzz that more teams were looking to relocate prompted Riot Games to implement a rule ensuring that five-player LoL teams have at least three members who are actually from the region they represent.
¡§We want to make sure that each regional league maintains the identity of its local region,¡¨ Mr. Beck said. ¡§For example, you can¡¦t just have a Chinese team pick up and move to Europe and potentially represent Europe in a world championship when you have all Chinese players on a team.¡¨
¡§It doesn¡¦t really seem fair on the surface,¡¨ said Erik Lonnquist, an American LoL commentator based in Seoul. ¡§[But] I think it¡¦s fairly necessary to help the North American and European teams grow and cultivate more local talent.¡¨
The LoL final will be broadcast on ESPN3, complete with a live performance by the U.S. band Imagine Dragons. Last year¡¦s final, which was also won by a Korean team, had 32 million viewers online.
Mr. Hanaf¡¦s commentary at the Dota 2 final was broadcast on the video platform Twitch, which Amazon.com Inc. agreed to purchase for $970 million in August. While Nexon Arena¡¦s basement-level spectators¡¦ area was filled to its 260-person capacity, more than 6,000 people watched the broadcasts in Korean, and over 110,000 viewers tuned in to Twitch.
The video game competitions known as e-sports took off around the world more than 15 years ago, but they found mainstream acceptance much more quickly in South Korea. And like another Korean cultural force, K-Pop, video games are big business in the country. Last year, the games industry brought in an estimated $9 billion in revenue according to a senior statistics researcher at the government agency, Korea Creative Content Agency.
Andrew Pender¡Xan Australian pro gaming commentator based in Seoul and a veteran pro gamer¡Xsaid a combination of factors, including the country¡¦s widespread broadband connectivity, rigorous training and a gaming infrastructure of team houses and coaches fueled the growth there.
Some foreigners move to South Korea to practice for a time or do e-sports commentary, or, in rarer cases, like that of Mr. Hanaf, to forge a pro gaming career.
Mr. Hanaf moved to Seoul in 2010 to play in a new league for StarCraft II, the sequel to the popular StarCraft, a real-time space adventure strategy game developed and published by U.S. company Blizzard Entertainment Inc. in the late ¡¦90s.
He had been living in Paris, halfheartedly pursuing a degree in IT, mostly to keep his parents happy, he said. But he¡¦d distract himself with video games, which he was good at, and would get invited to tournaments in Sweden.
The new league gave him the impetus to quit his studies and give pro gaming a shot; Mr. Hanaf said he wanted to compete with the best. The world¡¦s top 16 StarCraft II players, ranked by the World Championship Series held by Blizzard, are all Korean.
Mr. Hanaf achieved some success with StarCraft II, but late last year switched to Dota 2 after he lost his regular training spot in a foreign gamers¡¦ house in Seoul and was reduced to practicing in PC bangs. He most recently played with Team Muhan in the recently concluded Korea Dota 2 League tournament, and isn¡¦t currently with a team.
He makes a living now from tournament earnings, the occasional acting or television extra work, streaming his practice games, and doing commentary for KDL.
Mr. Hanaf, who grew up in Paris and Casablanca, played game consoles from three years of age. He also rode horses from a young age, and did competitive show jumping for about five years until he was 17, winning regional tournaments and placing second in a national competition at 15 in Morocco.
Like other pro gamers, when Mr. Hanaf talks about playing video games he sounds like an athlete. He trains daily by playing at home on his PC to ¡§stay in shape, get better¡¨ and watches match replays to sharpen his skills. ¡§The only difference is that we do this through computer games instead of physical activities, so it¡¦s like mental sports I guess.¡¨
