<title:> Samsung shares could gain as much as 50 percent -Barron's
<Date:>Oct 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Samsung Electronics appear cheap and could gain as much as 50 percent, Barron's financial newspaper said in its latest edition.
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XAlcatel-Lucent SA, one of the world¡¦s largest providers of telecommunications network equipment, is betting on Japan¡¦s surging appetite for the latest smartphone infrastructure to help it develop the technology the global market will need in the future.
Michel Combes, chief executive of the French-American company, this week opened a new research site in Tokyo that will work on development of software and cloud computing services for telecom networks. Those are the technologies carriers are embracing as they try to ease the load on overburdened hardware.
The facility is the first of its kind for Alcatel-Lucent, which has been focusing on potential growth areas as it accelerates a restructuring under Mr. Combes, who took over about a year and a half ago. The initial investment is small¡X¡§a few million euros,¡¨ according to Mr. Combes¡Xbut he described it as a vote of confidence in the future of the Japanese telecommunications business.
¡§It is obvious that Japan is extremely important to us,¡¨ Mr. Combes said. ¡§This country is still extremely fast in terms of innovation in the high-tech industry,¡¨ he added, citing the rapid embrace of high-speed Long-Term Evolution, or LTE, technology by the country¡¦s major mobile operators.
Yet the travails of the country¡¦s electronics industry, which has failed to produce a smartphone to compete with Apple Inc.¡¦s iPhone or Samsung Electronics Co.¡¦s Galaxy series, have also created an opening for foreign providers of the telecom network gear that is needed to carry the burgeoning volume of smartphone data traffic.
Japan imported ?619 billion ($5.7 billion) worth of network equipment in the financial year ended in March, up from Y603 billion a year earlier, according to the Communications and Information Network Association of Japan.
At the same time it also has two strong local players in NEC Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd., which have long-standing relationships with Japanese telecom providers such as Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.
While foreign equipment providers like Huawei Technologies Co. of China and Ericsson of Sweden have made inroads in the Japanese market for wireless and fixed-line network access gear, ¡§Alcatel hasn't been a big player,¡¨ Mr. Combes said.
The company has had better luck with equipment like core routers, which manage the flow of data within networks. The company doesn¡¦t break out its sales in Japan, though Mr. Combes said they totaled ¡§several hundred million euros,¡¨ out of a companywide total of 14.4 billion euros in 2013.
Worldwide, sales of telecommunications equipment and software totaled $183 billion in the 2013 calendar year, up 3% from 2012, according to Infonetics, a research firm. It predicts that sales will total $1 trillion from 2014 through 2018. Infonetics says Alcatel-Lucent ranks fourth, behind Cisco, Huawei and Ericsson, in sales.
Mr. Combes says new technologies like those being studied at the Tokyo site will drive growth. At the research center, Alcatel-Lucent will invite its customers to jointly investigate ways to use networks more efficiently. Service providers are turning to the cloud as they grapple with ways to deal with the surge in traffic caused by the rise of online video and other bandwidth-hungry applications.
¡§Japan is at the heart of this new strategy in terms of innovation and growth,¡¨ Mr. Combes said.
