<title:>By Geoffrey A. Fowler 
<Date:>8 October 2014
<Content:>
Here¡¦s a surprise: You can now buy a tablet for $100. Here¡¦s a bigger surprise: It won¡¦t necessarily be terrible.
Cheap Android tablets have been on the market for a while, but most were barely worth turning into cat toys. Now, four years after the first iPad, Amazon¡¦s $99 Fire HD 6 has brought a new baseline of quality to tablets that are inexpensive enough to be essentially disposable.
This means two things: First, you don¡¦t have to lay out big bucks for an iPad or Galaxy Tab for everyone in your family. Second, your cheap tablets aren¡¦t necessarily going to last as long, and you must be better prepared for what to do with them when they die.
Amazon¡¦s new tablet caught my attention because it doesn¡¦t skimp on core specs. It is as speedy as the top of the line from 2012, which is to say decent. And its 6-inch screen is sufficiently bright and visible from most angles. (A 7-inch version costs $139.) Even the battery holds up to more than 11? hours of video playback.
So I put it to the test, alongside two other Android tablets from big brands, Acer¡¦s Iconia One 7 and Asus¡¦ MeMO Pad 7 (whose $100 price has since risen to $120). I also threw an ultracheap tablet in the mix, the $55 Tablet Express Dragon Touch 7, which has garnered thousands of rather divided customer reviews online.
All four of these tablets represent compromise. If you¡¦re a no-compromises kind of person, take a look at the Samsung Galaxy Tab S or tune in Oct. 16 when Apple is expected to unveil new iPads which will surely make last year¡¦s models feel ancient. But thanks to the persistent drumbeat of manufacturing efficiency, it¡¦s now possible to get 80% of the functionality of a full-featured tablet for 30% of the price.
Amazon¡¦s Fire makes a fine children¡¦s playtime machine, pocket-size video player, Web browser or e-book reader, if you don¡¦t mind that Amazon subsidizes the $99 version with ads on the tablet¡¦s lock screen. And if you don¡¦t want to be locked into Amazon¡¦s store and Prime service, Acer¡¦s Iconia One is a passable alternative, albeit one with a weaker battery and camera.
What¡¦s a $100 Tablet Good For?
I tested my lineup of tablets with a gantlet of everyday tasks.
For many of us, tablets are foremost portable TVs for watching Netflix or baby sitting little ones with cartoons. Even a $55 tablet can play or stream video today. For $100, Amazon¡¦s Fire does entertainment almost as well as Apple, with its own version of Android tailored to its large content store.
The Fire¡¦s 6-inch screen, while an inch smaller than both the Acer and Asus, packs enough bright, saturated pixels to make most videos look OK. Only by holding it next to a pricier tablet can you see where Amazon cut corners. Though high-def, the screen isn¡¦t the ¡§full HD¡¨ found on TVs and higher-end tablets. And, lacking the latest display advancements, it also suffers from glare.
Thankfully, Amazon didn¡¦t skimp on battery life. The Fire lasted nearly half a day when I set it playing video with brightness at 50%, a performance only Asus could come close to matching. (Acer¡¦s Iconia One ran out of juice after about six hours; the poor Dragon Touch ran out in under four hours.)
Still, the Fire¡¦s battery performance fell by half when I set brightness to max, which you¡¦d want if you¡¦re using it near a window. I wish the Fire had an auto brightness setting.
E-books and websites download fine on the Fire, though Amazon did use a slower Wi-Fi chip on the HD line than on its premium HDX tablets. That $80 step up also has a higher-resolution screen that makes type appear smoother.
The biggest compromise is how it feels in your hands. The Fire is small enough to fit in a roomy pocket or bag, but when I sit back to read, it feels a little chunky. It weighs about as much as an iPad Mini, and less than a full can of Coke. None of Amazon¡¦s bargain competitors were significantly slimmer.
All cheap tablets have front and rear cameras these days. But don¡¦t buy a $100 tablet to take pictures. Actually, don¡¦t buy any tablet to take pictures¡Xyou look silly. If you insist, here¡¦s what you¡¦ll get from the Fire: Shots that look like they came from your 2009 smartphone. Still, it was the leader of the $100 pack.
These tablets also can run most popular Android games. I could knock out the trickiest swine in ¡§Angry Birds,¡¨ and crash into lots of things with ¡§Need for Speed Most Wanted.¡¨
The zippiest performance came from the Fire HD 6, which clocks in at about the same speed as a 2012 Samsung Galaxy Note II phablet. Still, don¡¦t buy the Fire for a serious gamer: More graphics-rich games tend to come first¡Xor only¡Xto Apple devices. Amazon doesn¡¦t even offer some popular Android games found in Google¡¦s Play store, such as ¡§Madden NFL Mobile.¡¨
The ultimate test¡Xthe tablet pentathlon¡Xis Skyping with loved ones. It requires fast wireless, a zippy processor, decent cameras and speakers and a screen visible from all angles. While the Fire¡¦s front-facing camera is very low resolution, it did a fine job balancing the shot in a backlit situation. Its speaker is a little on the quiet side, but sounded natural.
What¡¦s most impressive about Amazon and Acer for video chats is that you and the rest of the family can see the screen at the same time from different positions. The Asus and Dragon Touch, on the other hand, have some of the worst viewing angle problems I¡¦ve seen in years.
None of the screens were great for getting work done. You can answer work email on a $100 tablet, but you wouldn¡¦t want to use apps that require any sort of precision. Switching between running apps is possible on these tablets, but so slow it will make you sad.
Speaking of apps, you¡¦ll find generic office suites but no official Microsoft Office on Android tablets. Amazon doesn¡¦t even have access to Google¡¦s free productivity apps, a possible deal-breaker for some.
How Long Will a $100 Tablet Last?
Before buying a $100 tablet you¡¦re going to have ask the tough questions of how long you expect it to be in service¡Xand what you¡¦ll do when it craps out.
You can¡¦t easily replace the batteries on any of these tablets (same as with the iPad). And processors falter as software gets more sophisticated. Amazon¡¦s latest system software doesn¡¦t even support tablets the company made three years ago. I¡¦d wager this Fire will do fine for about 18 months.
Companies haven¡¦t always made it easy to properly get rid of electronics, but that¡¦s starting to change. For $50 more, Amazon sells a Kids Edition of this tablet with a rugged case and a guarantee from Amazon that if it gets broken the company will take it back and send you a new one.
Amazon, Acer and Asus have little-advertised free programs that take back tablets via mail, wipe your personal data, then refurbish or recycle them. Best Buy takes back many devices in person, and 1800recycling.com can help you find others.
A recent Best Buy-commissioned survey found just 39% of people say they recycle their electronics. If tablets are designed to become obsolete sooner rather than later, companies need to build them to be recycled and make it easier for us to do our part.
Corrections & Amplifications
A recent Best Buy-commissioned survey found 39% of people say they recycle their electronics. A previous version of this column incorrectly identified Electronic Recyclers International as having conducted the survey. (Oct. 7, 2014)
