<title:>Tech
Huawei¡¦s Chen: Advanced Tech Can Help Us Enter the U.S. Market; Chinese Hardware Maker Is Looking to 5G, Cloud and Big Data; Security Accusations Have ¡¥No Facts¡¦
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.¡XHuawei Technologies Co., which has been effectively shut out of the U.S. telecommunications-equipment market on security concerns, hopes that investments in advanced technology will help the Chinese company eventually break through.
¡§It will take a longer time than it took in Europe and Asia for entering the U.S. market,¡¨ Huawei Senior Vice President Chen Lifang said at the WSJD Live global technology conference Wednesday. ¡§My confidence comes from advanced technologies¡¨ like fifth generation, or 5G, mobile technology, optical networking, cloud computing and big data, she added.
Since 2012, Huawei, the world¡¦s second-largest telecom-equipment maker after Sweden¡¦s Ericsson, has been the subject of concerns in the U.S., Australia and the United Kingdom that the Shenzhen-based company might have ties to the Chinese government. A U.S. congressional report in 2012 recommended that the U.S. government avoid using equipment from the firm, encouraging U.S. companies to seek alternative vendors for their network gear.
Ms. Chen said the claims are ¡§accusations with no facts substantiating the claims.¡¨
¡§We will continue to work on improving security and make investments,¡¨ she said, noting Huawei¡¦s work on smartphone security and data centers.
Huawei competes with the likes of Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks Inc. in networking equipment. Responding to a question about Cisco¡¦s struggles in China and claims of an unfair playing field for foreign players, Ms. Chen said most of the backbone telecom-network equipment used by the Chinese government, the financial industry and telecom carriers in the country is provided by Cisco and not Huawei
Boosted by strong sales in its home market, Huawei¡¦s earnings have climbed steadily in recent years despite concerns about security.
The company has forecast 2018 revenue of 435.7 billion yuan, or roughly $71 billion, up from 239.03 billion yuan in 2013. Huawei¡¦s revenue in China rose 14% last year as smartphone sales increased. Revenue from the company¡¦s enterprise business, which helps corporate clients build their internal communication networks, increased roughly 30%, Huawei has said.
Ms. Chen said Huawei aims to sell 80 million mobile phones, up 54% from last year. Huawei¡¦s smartphones have little presence in the U.S., but the company has been growing rapidly in other parts of the world, especially in emerging markets.
In the second quarter, Huawei was the third-largest smartphone maker in the world behind Apple Inc., with its market share jumping to 6.9% from 4.3% a year earlier, according to research firm IDC. No. 1 Samsung Electronics Co. saw its market share drop to 25% from 32% a year earlier.
For smartphones, Ms. Chen said that Huawei expects Chinese and European markets to contribute further to its growth. China, the world¡¦s biggest smartphone market, is transitioning to 4G mobile technology, while the European market is a ¡§high value market,¡¨ she said.
While there has been some consolidation in the global handset market with rival Lenovo Group Ltd. acquiring Google Inc.¡¦s Motorola handset unit, Ms. Chen said Huawei isn¡¦t interested in acquisitions to grow in the space. 
