<title:>Tech
Foxconn Workers Walk Off Job at Chinese Plant; About 1,000 Employees Went on Strike for Several Hours This Week
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
About 1,000 workers at a Foxconn Technology Co. plant in southwest China assembling printers and computers for companies including Hewlett-Packard Co. went on strike for several hours this week demanding higher pay.
The Taiwan-based company, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., said the workers walked off the job for four hours Wednesday at its production site in Chongqing. About 20 workers went on strike Thursday morning, but further details on that stoppage weren・t available.
Foxconn is working with its labor union and workers to resolve the dispute, the company said Thursday in a statement. The company said the strikes didn・t disrupt production.
Management ：continuously increased production volumes, and even required individual workers to take on tasks that used to require two workers to handle. The increase in workload wasn・t compensated,； said one worker who declined to be named. He said he participated in the strike.
：Some workers are not happy because the company [Foxconn] has reduced overtime hours, a key component of their salaries,； after H-P cut orders, said a Foxconn official who declined to be named. Workers also demanded the resignation of the factory manager, he said. Also, the company had tried to lay off some workers without paying severance, the official added.
Foxconn filed a complaint with the local police, he said. The reason for the complaint wasn・t clear.
On the Weibo social-media service, users distributed images that appeared show hundreds of workers gathered outside the Chongqing facility Wednesday, waving protest banners as police officers looked on. The police presence at the factory continued Thursday, according to the worker.
A Chongqing police spokeswoman, however, said she wasn・t aware of the strike.
Foxconn employs about 30,000 workers at its Chongqing site. The company has more than one million workers in China and is a major supplier to Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp.
The strike came after H-P said earlier this month it planned to separate its personal-computer and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations as it faces intensifying competition from China・s Lenovo Group Ltd.
：H-P continuously works to optimize its supply chain in order to maximize production and meet continued customer demand,； H-P said in a statement. ：At times this results in the movement of product lines between supplier factories. When these decisions are made, we work closely with the supplier so they can plan accordingly to minimize the impact to the workers.；
Lilian Lin in Beijing contributed to this article.
