<title:>Tech
 Lenovo  Completes Motorola Acquisition; World・s Largest PC Maker Expands in the Smartphone Market
<Date:>30 October 2014
<Content:>
Lenovo Group Ltd. said Thursday it has completed its $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility, as the world・s largest personal-computer maker continues its expansion in the global smartphone market.
The deal with Lenovo opens a new chapter for Motorola, which has been unprofitable as a unit of Google Inc. Lenovo, which makes the ThinkPad line of PCs and Yoga line of tablet-PC convertibles, first announced its plans to buy Motorola from Google in January.
Motorola plans to turn around its business by taking advantage of Lenovo・s efficient supply chain and distribution networks as well as economies of scale that could bring down material-procurement costs. Lenovo Chief Executive Yang Yuanqing has said several times this year that he expects to turn Motorola profitable within four to six quarters after completing the deal.
Lenovo will operate Motorola as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Motorola・s headquarters will stay in Chicago and current President Rick Osterloh will continue to head the business, while Liu Jun, the head of Lenovo・s mobile business, will become Motorola・s chairman, Lenovo said.
Founded in China, Lenovo bought International Business Machines Corp.・s PC business in 2005. The company, now headquartered in both China and the U.S., overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. to become the No. 1 PC maker by shipments last year.
As the global PC market has become saturated over the years, Lenovo is seeking new sources of growth by expanding its smartphone business, trying to take on Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. in the global market. Lenovo, one of the largest smartphone vendors in China, has been increasing its presence in Southeast Asia, Russia and other emerging markets. In the third quarter, Lenovo was the world・s fourth-largest smartphone vendor with a 5.2% share, behind Samsung, Apple and China・s Xiaomi Inc., according to research firm IDC.
While Motorola・s global smartphone market share is much smaller than Lenovo・s, Mr. Yang has said that Lenovo can gain footholds in the U.S. and other mature markets by taking advantage of Motorola・s strong relationship with telecommunication carriers and its intellectual properties that can help fend off patent lawsuits. In the U.S., Lenovo plans to keep selling Motorola-branded smartphones instead of phones with Lenovo logos.
In the U.S., Motorola was the fifth-largest smartphone vendor in the second quarter, with a 4.1% market share, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.
Write to Juro Osawa at juro.osawa@wsj.com
