<title:>Business
A Chinese Investment on Fracking Fails to Deliver; How a Shanghai Real-Estate Mogul's Bet in Canada's Bakken Shale Went Sour
<Date:>30 September 2014
<Content:>
CALGARY, Alberta¡XAbout a decade ago, a Shanghai-based real-estate mogul began amassing 100,000 acres in southeastern Saskatchewan near the North Dakota border.
Few people expected it at the time, but the surrounding Bakken Shale formation was on the cusp of revolutionizing North America's energy industry, creating oil giants of onetime small companies.
But Ni Zhaoxing's operation¡Xa rare, early foray by Chinese private equity into the North American energy sector¡Xhas little output to show for its bet, the amount of which it hasn't disclosed.
Mr. Ni in 2007 targeted production of 20,000 barrels of oil a day within Canada Capital Energy Corp.'s first five years of business. Yet the company pumped 567 barrels of oil a day last year, according to the Saskatchewan government, and has forecast production in the mid-thousands of barrels of oil and natural-gas liquids by early next year. Crescent Point Energy Corp., a rival of Canada Capital Energy produced 41,132 barrels a day last year in the Canadian Bakken.
China's fondness for North American oil and gas assets has surged recently, with Chinese companies spending $44.2 billion in the five years through 2013 on energy deals, according to Dealogic. Canada Capital Energy's anemic performance stands out as a rare misstep in a region where other companies essentially have been pumping money out of the ground through hydraulic fracturing and other relatively new techniques.
Part of the problem is that the Canadian Bakken is shallower and not as rich as the American side of the formation. It also is smaller.
Canada's share of the Bakken produces about 71,000 barrels of oil a day, compared with 1.1 million barrels a day in the U.S., according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. The Saskatchewan Research Council estimates the Canadian Bakken holds up to 100 billion barrels, but much of that can't be recovered easily or economically.
Canada Capital Energy had other problems, though. Former employees ascribe its weak results to a focus on short-term output, failure to embrace new technology and reluctance to outbid rivals for more lucrative assets. And then there was the property itself.
"The land that they had in the Bakken wasn't that good," said Graeme Bloy, who served as Canada Capital Energy's vice president for exploration from 2009 to 2012.
Canada Capital Energy Chairman Gong Jianxin, who is Mr. Ni's wife, said the company hasn't limited its ambitions to the Canadian Bakken.
The company said its net revenue has averaged 67 Canadian dollars ($60) per barrel of oil equivalent this year. That exceeds C$59 at rival Crescent Point. Crescent said its figure reflects moves into areas outside Saskatchewan, where returns aren't as strong yet.
"CCEC is one of the most profitable producers in Canada," Ms. Gong said in a written statement. "We feel happy to have made the decision to invest in Canada in 2005 and are proud to have endured the steep learning curve of establishing operations in an international jurisdiction¡Xit is the chance you take to establish a successful company."
The closely held company doesn't report earnings publicly.
In 2005 with seed money from Mr. Ni's Zhongrong Group, Canada Capital Energy began hiring a local team to buy up land leases in Saskatchewan. It was just a couple of years before the boom in crude-oil production from Bakken wells.
Ms. Gong, who is also vice chairman of Zhongrong, said Canada Capital Energy was founded on the idea that China was poised for a sharp increase in demand for natural resources and that the company hoped one day to send some output to China.
Former executives said Mr. Ni, who spoke no English but monitored the business closely from Shanghai, was impatient to see a return on investment and annoyed with the hit-or-miss nature of the oil business. Representatives for Mr. Ni deferred comment to Ms. Gong.
The Calgary-based company, which originally had its headquarters in Regina, Saskatchewan, was slow to embrace new techniques that have swept the Bakken and proved crucial to other companies success, such as fracking and horizontal drilling, former executives said.
"We didn't feel comfortable with technology that wasn't well-developed yet. In hindsight, that probably wasn't the right decision," said Mike Monea, who was Canada Capital Energy's vice president of oil and gas until 2009. He is now an executive with Saskatchewan Power Corp.
The Chinese board was composed of businesspeople with little oil-field experience and they quickly grew apprehensive about mixed drilling results and the constant need for capital to drill wells and secure new leases, former company executives said.
Bob Shirkie, Canada Capital Energy's chief geologist from 2006 to 2009, said the company was unwilling to outbid rivals for what turned out to be the best land. "They got in just before the Bakken was recognized as the next big play," he said. "But we missed out."
Funding dried up as Mr. Ni focused on other global investments, said Mr. Bloy, the former vice president for exploration. "We were undercapitalized."
Canada Capital Energy could get a second chance, again with help from China. The company this year gained commitments of about US$450 million from Chinese conglomerates Zhejiang Rongsheng Holding Group Co. and the private-equity arm of Lenovo Group Ltd.
Canada Capital Energy's head of business development, Robert Giles, said the company has shifted its focus but declined to be more specific. "From an operations standpoint, our assets do not expose us to the Bakken and we are pursuing other opportunities," he said by email.
A Canadian Energy subsidiary obtained licenses last year from Canada's National Energy Board to export natural-gas liquids such as butane and propane, but the board said the company hasn't begun shipments.
Ms. Gong said the company is evaluating various strategies, including exports of natural-gas liquids.
Gordon Houston, a Canadian transportation ministry adviser and director at the Canada Capital Energy subsidiary until 2012, said he had heard that the company might seek to export liquefied natural gas to China.
Ms. Gong said there had been "no public discussion" about the company's possible involvement in Canadian LNG facilities or in exporting natural gas.
