<title:>Tech
Larger Apple iPad to Be Delayed; Apple Suppliers Concentrating on Meeting Demand for New iPhones
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
Apple Inc. suppliers have pushed back plans to mass produce a larger-screen tablet to early next year, people familiar with the matter said, as they struggle to make enough new iPhones to meet strong demand.
Suppliers of the Cupertino, Calif., company had originally planned to produce the larger iPad in mass volume beginning in December, the people said.
¡§The top priority for the supply chain is to meet the overwhelming demand for the larger screen iPhones. The output of the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus remains unsatisfactory,¡¨ said a person at a supplier. ¡§It would be challenging for display makers to split resources and spend a few months to ramp up production for a new larger screen iPad now.¡¨
Foxconn Technology Co., a major assembler of Apple¡¦s iPhones and iPads, is also facing the challenge of hiring enough factory workers to assemble the two new iPhones at its largest production site in Zhengzhou, in northern China. At the plant, more than 200,000 workers are dedicated to just making the new iPhones and key components such as metal casings. Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., is the world¡¦s largest contract manufacturer by revenue and has more than 1 million workers in China assembling electronics for companies including Apple, Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
¡§Everyone is busy with the new iPhones, Foxconn¡¦s bread and butter. Chairman [Terry Gou] has also gone to the Zhengzhou site to monitor the production closely,¡¨ said an official at Foxconn.
Apple said it sold more than 10 million of its new iPhones in its first weekend of availability. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus went on sale in 10 countries on Sept. 19. Apple has expanded to other countries in recent weeks and is expected to start sales of the new handsets in China on Oct. 17. The company is expected to give an update on iPhone sales when it reports results for the quarter ended September, on Oct. 20.
Suppliers in Asia say Apple¡¦s larger tablet will likely have a 12.9-inch liquid-crystal-display screen with resolution that is similar to the current 9.7-inch iPad Air unveiled in October last year.
Apple said on Wednesday it was hosting a media event on Oct. 16. While the media invite didn¡¦t say what will be discussed, it is expected that Apple will unveil new iPads and iMacs. It remains unclear if the company will unveil plans for the larger iPad at the event and Apple declined to comment.
Apple¡¦s plans for a larger iPad come as the company¡¦s tablet business is showing signs of slowing. Unit sales of iPads have fallen for two straight quarters, while revenue from tablets has fallen on a year-to-year basis for four of the past five quarters.
It would be the first time Apple unveils a bigger screen iPad, following its move to launch bigger-screen iPhones last month to counter competition from rivals like Samsung Electronics Co. which popularized the big-screen mobile devices. As early as last year, Apple was testing larger screens for its smartphones and tablets.
Apple introduced a smaller iPad¡Xthe 7.9-inch iPad Mini¡Xin late 2012 as it tried to offer different sizes to compete in the tablet market.
Data from research firm IDC shows Apple¡¦s share of the global tablet market has slipped to 26.9% in the second quarter from 33% a year earlier. Samsung¡¦s share of the tablet market also fell to 17.2% from 18.8% as both companies have been facing rising competition from other Chinese vendors including Lenovo Group Ltd.
Apple has continued to expand its customer base with new products and refinements of current ones.
Suppliers are also preparing for mass production of a 12-inch MacBook Air in December, featuring a higher resolution display, people familiar with the matter said. The current MacBook Air comes in two different sizes: 11-inch and 13-inch models.
Amid a technological sea change from desktop computers to mobile devices, Apple aims to position the iPad as the computing product for a new generation of workers. In July, Apple struck a partnership with International Business Machines Corp. to develop applications targeted at different industries. Under the partnership, IBM also plans to sell iPhones and iPads to its corporate clients.
¡§If Apple were to launch a larger iPad, it would need to make better use of the screen real estate. Introducing better multitasking capabilities would certainly drive interest,¡¨ said Tim Coulling, analyst at Canalys.
