<title:>Asia
What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>30 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Videogame maker Nintendo is adding a new business line¡Xhealth care¡Xstarting with a service next year that tracks users¡¦ sleeping patterns.
Sour loans on the books of China¡¦s biggest banks have risen 22% since the start of the year, amid slowing economic growth and overcapacity in some industries.
Japan¡¦s SoftBan k is taking a hard look at wireless assets that have been put up for sale by America Movil of Mexico.
Fujifilm Holdings will prioritize providing its drug Avigan for those suffering from Ebola, but it said it is difficult to say how that will affect profitability.
Wal-Mart Stores said it plans to close about 30 underperforming stores in Japan, where it has about 430 locations and operates under the Seiyu banner.
AMP is purchasing almost 20% of China Life Pension in a deal that would make the Australian wealth manager the first foreign company to acquire a stake in a Chinese pension firm.
National Australia Bank¡¦s new boss is hastening the lender¡¦s retreat from faraway markets in a bid to boost profitability, making plain an intention to exit the U.K.
Rising investor demand for corporate payouts and a coming slate of dividend-focused investment funds in South Korea are putting pressure on big firms to return more cash to shareholders.
GE is in early talks to sell stakes likely valued at more than $1 billion in its South Korean auto-financing and credit-card businesses, in its latest shift away from consumer finance globally.
Lenovo said it has now gained all of the approvals necessary to complete its $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility.
China Citic Bank is planning to sell as much as $2 billion in shares to a state-owned tobacco maker.
World-Wide
Fear of Ebola is slowing rice shipments from Asia to Africa as shipping crews refuse to travel to affected regions or demand higher freight charges, aggravating a food crisis in one of the world¡¦s most malnourished areas.
A Sri Lankan official said there was no hope of finding survivors after a mudslide tore through a tea plantation Wednesday, burying scores of people alive.
A British appeals court ruled that a man who says he was illegally arrested and sent to Libya should be allowed to proceed with a case against the U.K. government.
