<title:>Tech
Delayed iPhone Release Highlights Apple's Challenges in China; Decision to Hold Off on World's Largest Smartphone Market Marks Departure From Previous Launch
<Date:>10 September 2014
<Content:>
China is one of Apple Inc.'s biggest markets by sales and a major growth driver. But when it comes to its new iPhones, the country will have to wait, highlighting the difficulties the technology giant faces in getting its China strategy right.
The Cupertino, Calif., company on Tuesday unveiled its new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which have larger screens than previous models. But while Apple said its new smartphones would go on sale Sept. 19 in the U.S. and some European and Asian markets, including Hong Kong, it didn't list China as one of countries where they would be immediately available.
It's a change from when Apple launched the iPhone 5S last year and the device was available through major carriers in China at the same time as the U.S.
Apple's Beijing-based spokeswoman declined to comment on the reason for the delay. She said the company sees China as a key market and is trying to get the new iPhones there as soon as possible.
China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which approves among many things the import of mobile devices into the country, didn't list the new smartphones among devices approved for sale as of Wednesday. Officials didn't respond to a request for comment.
A moderate delay won't likely cause lasting damage to Apple's sales in China because of the brand's cachet and because the bigger screens are attractive to Chinese consumers, analysts say. Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, generated $5.94 billion in revenue for Apple during the fiscal third quarter ended June 28, up 28% from a year earlier and making up nearly 16% of its total revenue. That compares with $14.58 billion in the U.S. and $8.09 billion in Europe.
"Apple may face limited supplies initially and could want time to build up the phone's new electronic wallet function there," said Sandy Shen, an analyst at Gartner.
Other analysts speculated that the delay could be due to a recent cut in handset subsidies from Chinese mobile carriers, potentially weakening demand.
Apple has faced increasing competition from rival Samsung Electronics Co., which was faster to offer the larger screens that many Chinese consumers like for streaming TV shows and playing games. It is also facing growing competition from local manufacturers such as Xiaomi Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd., which are offering phones with increasingly competitive hardware at budget prices.
Apple also is under growing scrutiny from labor conditions among its suppliers, and faced criticism in government-run media for its warranty practices and for its location tracking feature, with the official China Central Television labeling it a security threat. Apple has said it closely monitors labor conditions among suppliers and apologized for its warranty practices. It also says it doesn't track iPhone users.
Still, the U.S. company has increased its market share in the world's largest smartphone market after broadening sales channels. In December, it unveiled a deal to offer phones through China Mobile Ltd., the world's largest mobile carrier. Its share of the Chinese smartphone market rose to 6.5% in the second quarter from 4.9% the year before, according to IDC, making it the country's No. 6 smartphone maker.
"The country's impact on the global smartphone market has continued to increase given its large population, and its shipment growth is still relatively fast compared to the mature markets in the West," said Kitty Fok, a Beijing-based analyst at IDC.
Apple has been criticized in the past by customers for being slow to launch products in China, a phenomenon that has led to a flourishing gray market in iPhones bought elsewhere, typically in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong retailers said they expected the delay would reignite gray-market demand.
"We have seen keen interest in the iPhone 6 among Chinese customers," said Lo Lau, who operates a smartphone store in Hong Kong's bustling Mongkok neighborhood. Mr. Lau said he expected sales of gray-market iPhones to jump between 20% and 30% as a result of the delayed mainland launch.
Apple's new products were the most-discussed topic on Chinese social-media service Sina Weibo on Wednesday. "The iPhone 6 Plus will kill all the big-screen Android devices to become the new must-have for rich people," wrote Wang Guanxiong, a well-known tech marketing expert.
Still, for many users, the most noteworthy element of the release was the translation of "Bigger than Bigger," Apple's slogan for the new phones, on the company's mainland China website. Many said it sounded awkward in Chinese. "Can't Apple afford to hire someone with a basic education to handle the translation?" asked one Weibo user.
Some posted their own slogans in response, among them "Really Damn Big," "Just Big," and "If You Say It's Not Big, You're Not Being Objective." One user, taking a dig at Apple for following Samsung in offering bigger screens, suggested "More Samsung Than Samsung."
There are no prices listed on Apple's mainland China website yet, but the company's Hong Kong website lists the 16-gigabyte iPhone 6 at 5,588 Hong Kong dollars ($721) and the 16GB iPhone 6 Plus at HK$6,388. That's more expensive than the comparable Samsung Galaxy S5, which typically sells for less than 4,000 yuan ($652) in China, and the Mi 4, produced by China's Xiaomi, which goes for about 2,000 yuan.
"Here are three reasons I won't be buying the iPhone 6," read one popular post on Weibo, with a photo attached that repeated the Chinese character for "poor" three times.
The Apple spokeswoman declined to comment on the responses.
Ma Si and Yang Jie in Beijing contributed to this article.
