<title:>Tech
Samsung¡¦s Primacy Is Tested in China; South Korean Giant to Roll Out Cheaper Line of Smartphones to Fend Off Competition From Xiaomi, Others
<Date:>27 October 2014
<Content:>
SHANGHAI¡XSamsung Electronics Co.¡¦s attempt to stay on top of the fast-changing smartphone business will depend on winning back people like He Wenzong.
The 30-year-old apparel-company employee and Shanghai resident last year traded his Galaxy S3 phone, one of Samsung¡¦s most successful products, for a handset made by Beijing-based upstart Xiaomi Inc., which a few months ago displaced Samsung as China¡¦s No. 1 smartphone seller.
Xiaomi¡¦s phone offers better software and services, Mr. He says, at a fraction of a new Samsung¡¦s price. ¡§To me, it looks like it¡¦s the same quality, but one costs 2,000 yuan ($327) and the other is 3,500 yuan,¡¨ says Mr. He. ¡§So why would I pick Samsung?¡¨
Across China¡Xand around the globe¡Xother people are starting to feel the same way. Samsung has lost its top position for mobile-phone sales in India, and research firms that track smartphone shipments say it is in danger of being toppled in Thailand and the Philippines. Though Samsung is still the No. 1 smartphone maker globally, it has been losing market share in recent quarters.
In China, where Samsung gets 18% of its total sales, more than half of which is from the mobile-phone division, the company is parachuting in executives and outside consultants to assess the problem and figure out how to fix it, according to people with knowledge of the moves. The company is lowering prices for its existing handsets by up to 20%, considering a new marketing strategy in the country, and preparing to roll out a new, cheaper line of smartphones for emerging markets, the people said.
The steps are part of a larger attempt to shore up the mobile-phone division, which accounts for around 60% of Samsung¡¦s operating profit.
On Thursday, the company is expected to report that operating profit for the quarter ended in September has fallen by about 60% from a year earlier, following a 20% decline in the quarter before, largely because of what the company acknowledged was ¡§increased competition¡¨ in China.
Analysts expect the operating-profit margin of the mobile-phone division to fall to 8.1% in the third quarter, down from 19.8% in the first quarter, the thinnest margin since early 2010.
After leading sales in the Chinese smartphone market every quarter for the past two-and-a-half years, Samsung dropped behind Xiaomi during the quarter ended June, tying for second place with Lenovo Group Ltd. and Coolpad Group Ltd., according to data tracker Canalys.
Samsung¡¦s stock price has plunged 26% since early June, and last week fell to a nearly three-year low.
Samsung has cut the bonuses of hundreds of managers in its mobile division, according to people familiar with the matter. In an attempt to streamline operations, Samsung is combining many of its main business divisions in the U.S. under one chief, say people with direct knowledge of the move. That could foreshadow a similar consolidation of leadership at headquarters, where the company is run by three co-chief executives, said one of these people.
In an attempt to bring down its manufacturing costs, Samsung opened a $2 billion mobile-phone factory in Vietnam last year, and in July won approval from Vietnamese authorities for another factory to produce smartphone and tablet displays.
A Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on its China strategy or personnel moves.
Samsung became the biggest seller of smartphones globally by offering a full range of handsets¡Xfrom cheap models to high-end rivals to Apple Inc.¡¦s iPhone. Samsung manufactured its own displays, memory chips and batteries, and backed its devices with billions of dollars in marketing.
For years, that strategy worked in China too, where Samsung was an early player¡Xentering in 1992, the same year that South Korea established diplomatic relations there.
Samsung began building up extensive distribution networks to sell its televisions and mobile phones in the 1990s, giving it a sizable head start versus Apple when it began roll out high-end smartphones. Since most Chinese consumers buy their phones at mobile-phone or consumer-electronics retail outlets rather than through carriers, Samsung¡¦s network of stores let it reach consumers from small villages to big cities like Beijing and Shanghai.
Recently, however, more Chinese consumers are buying phones online, and many of Samsung¡¦s Chinese rivals, like Xiaomi, sell primarily that way, which also lowers their overhead. Xiaomi sells its handsets at close to cost, aiming to make money on software and services sold over the phones instead¡Xa tactic that lets it undercut Samsung prices.
Samsung¡¦s Chinese rivals run Google Inc.¡¦s Android operating system¡Xlike the vast majority of Samsung¡¦s smartphones. But they have been more efficient at pre-loading sales-generating apps on their phones and promoting their own app stores.
Samsung, by its own admission, has been slow to respond. The company kept its prices high, even on lower-tier smartphones, leading to a glut of unsold devices.
Samsung is focusing executive firepower on the problem, sending its top marketing and financial officers to scope out conditions on the ground, and forming an internal China strategy team as well as hiring consultants from McKinsey & Co. Inc. and Boston Consulting Group, according to a person with direct knowledge of the moves.
To unload excess inventory, Samsung has lowered some smartphone prices in China by between 10% and 20%, a tactic that could help it recapture some market share in the second half of the year, Canalys says.
The company is also preparing to release¡Xinitially in China¡Xa new line of smartphones dubbed Galaxy A, a midrange phone that offers many of the features of a high-end Galaxy S device but is priced more competitively with Chinese phones, according to people familiar with the plans.
Such price cuts could steepen the decline in operating-profit margin for mobile phones. Samsung worries it could also damage a premium-brand image it has spent years building, says Chang Sea-jin, a professor of management at South Korea¡¦s KAIST College of Business.
¡§Last year, Samsung knew that Chinese brands were coming,¡¨ Mr. Chang says, but didn¡¦t slash prices since it was ¡§trying to maintain its premium segment brand.¡¨
Fanfan Wang in Shanghai contributed to this article.
