<title:>Business
LCD Suit to Test Global Reach Of U.S. Antitrust Law; Motorola Mobility・s Suit Involves Alleged Price Fixing of Parts Sold and Assembled Abroad
<Date:>2 November 2014
<Content:>
A federal appeals court this month will take up a case involving mobile-phone screens that could test the reach of U.S. antitrust law in the global economy.
Chicago-based phone maker Motorola Mobility has brought a lawsuit alleging Samsung Electronics Co., Sharp Corp., LG Display Co. and other Asian companies colluded for nearly a decade to fix prices on liquid-crystal-display panels. The device maker says the allegedly cozy pricing agreements caused it to pay too much for the flat screens installed in its products.
Some of the companies have pleaded guilty to criminal price-fixing charges, but they dispute many of Motorola・s claims and generally deny their conduct adversely affected the company. Motorola and the LCD makers are clashing over whether damage claims on the foreign-sold panels belong in the U.S. legal system at all.
The civil case, scheduled for arguments on Nov. 13, is being watched by U.S. and foreign governments because it could affect how U.S. antitrust law applies to the manufacturing of high-tech products with many components that are sold and assembled abroad before arriving in the U.S. market.
The case focuses on LCD panels made in Asia and primarily delivered to Asian subsidiaries of Motorola that built phones later shipped to the U.S. and other locations.
The outcome could have broad ramifications because most manufacturing takes place offshore and price-fixing investigations often focus on the component parts of complex products instead of the final products themselves, John Terzaken of law firm Allen & Overy LLP said.
：Given that framework, the decision is likely to be really significant,； said Mr. Terzaken, who isn・t involved in the case.
Motorola says it purchased more than $5 billion worth of LCD panels for its Razr phones and other devices during the alleged industry price fixing, claiming it paid on average about 22% more for the panels on account of the conspiracy. A trial judge threw out nearly all of Motorola・s claims in January, saying the company could sue over the 1% of LCD panels delivered directly to Motorola in the U.S., but not over the 99% of LCD panels bought by Motorola・s foreign affiliates.
The Chicago-based Seventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals then issued a short-lived decision in March that also went against Motorola, but with broader reasoning that said the phone maker couldn・t proceed with most claims because the alleged price fixing didn・t have a direct effect on U.S. commerce.
That ruling prompted the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission to weigh in with concerns. The agencies warned the decision could have the collateral effect of crimping the government・s power to combat overseas price fixing. In recent years, the Justice Department brought many criminal cases over LCD price fixing, as well as dozens of prosecutions against Asian companies and executives for price fixing in the auto-parts industry.
The Justice Department and the FTC don・t embrace all of Motorola・s claims. But they joined the company in persuading the Seventh Circuit to withdraw the ruling. The court now is reconsidering the case, this time giving all sides more time to make their arguments.
The appeals court・s earlier reasoning ：threatens the ability of government law-enforcement and private actions to prevent and redress massive harm to U.S. consumers,； the government said in a legal brief.
Businesses around the globe are fearful of U.S. antitrust lawsuits like Motorola・s because winning plaintiffs can collect three times the amount of damages caused by anticompetitive conduct. Those concerns are prominent in legal submissions from foreign governments, including Japan and South Korea, which object to Motorola・s case and are worried about its effect on their companies.
：Giving private U.S. attorneys, which do not bear responsibility in international diplomacy and cooperation, the right to interfere with Japanese governmental regulation of the Japanese market is troublesome,； Japan・s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said in a court brief.
The case requires the appeals court to sort out of the meaning of the 1982 Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements Act, which says the Sherman Act, the primary U.S. antitrust statute, doesn・t apply to offshore business that doesn・t have a direct, substantial and reasonably foreseeable effect on U.S. commerce.
Motorola argues U.S. antitrust law must apply fully to its manufacturing arrangements, which it said were common for American companies. It alleges the LCD makers targeted Motorola and worked hard to have their panels included in U.S.-bound phones. ：The cartel is thus obviously subject to U.S. antitrust law, which exists for one reason: to protect U.S. businesses, markets and consumers from anticompetitive conduct,； it said in a court brief.
Motorola declined to comment beyond court briefs. China・s Lenovo Group Ltd. recently acquired Motorola from Google Inc.
The LCD makers say nearly all of Motorola・s case should be thrown out. ：It makes no difference that some of the panels eventually reached the United States as components of phones because the underlying injuries arose in foreign markets,； the companies said in court papers.
The defendants also say Motorola・s legal claims can be rejected without limiting the Justice Department・s right to prosecute foreign conduct that has direct effects in the U.S.
LG Display and Samsung declined to comment. Sharp didn・t respond to requests for comment.
Motorola・s lawsuit is separate from U.S. criminal proceedings against many top LCD makers that resulted in criminal fines totaling more than $1 billion.
Sharp pleaded guilty in 2008 and was sentenced to pay a $120 million fine for fixing prices on LCD panels sold to Motorola and other companies. That same year LG Display pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $400 million for LCD price fixing. The criminal charges in LG・s case made no mention of Motorola. The Justice Department has said Samsung was a co-conspirator in LCD price fixing, but the company cooperated early on with U.S. investigators and wasn・t charged. 
