<title:>Business
China¡¦s  Lenovo  Readies Phone Push Abroad; Computer Maker to Use Motorola Mobility Deal as Springboard; Profit Climbs 19%
<Date:>6 November 2014
<Content:>
Lenovo Group Ltd., the world¡¦s biggest computer maker by shipments and a rising power in smartphones, said it is hoping to expand its handset business rapidly abroad, now that its purchase of handset maker Motorola Mobility has closed.
The Chinese technology company, which officially took over Motorola from previous owner Google Inc. last week, said Thursday that growing sales of computers and smartphones already were responsible for a 19% rise in net profit to $262 million and a 7% rise in revenue to $10.48 billion during the quarter ended in September. Smartphone shipments rose 38% compared with a year earlier.
Those results didn¡¦t include the performances at Motorola or International Business Machines Corp.¡¦s server unit, which also became a Lenovo subsidiary last month.
With the addition of Motorola¡¦s operations, Lenovo- and Motorola-branded smartphones have a combined 7.8% share of global shipments, boosting Lenovo to No. 3 behind Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc., from No. 4, Lenovo said. In the U.S., where Lenovo hasn¡¦t sold phones under its own brand, Motorola¡¦s share of the smartphone market more than doubled in the latest quarter to propel the Chinese company to No. 4, close behind LG Electronics Inc., Lenovo said. Lenovo¡¦s immediate goal in the U.S. is to jump to No. 3 and threaten the leadership of Samsung and Apple, the company said. Samsung and LG are based in South Korea.
Yang Yuanqing, Lenovo¡¦s chief executive, has said that he wants the company to become the No. 1 smartphone maker in the world.
Lenovo¡¦s global mobile ambitions are another sign of the shifting power balance in the cutthroat smartphone industry, where market leaders Samsung and Apple are facing new challenges from low-cost competitors, mostly Chinese. Lenovo has a thriving global personal-computer business, but in handsets it has largely grown share at home, selling inexpensive but good-quality phones in the booming Chinese market along with domestic rivals such as Xiaomi Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co.
Now growth in China is slowing, and the Chinese companies are looking abroad.
¡§China¡¦s [smartphone] market is saturated,¡¨ and growth is likely to slow, Mr. Yang said Thursday. ¡§To win, you have to become a global player.¡¨
The Motorola acquisition gives Lenovo a leg up not only in the U.S. but in other mature markets, where the U.S. handset maker has strong relationships with carriers and its intellectual property can help defend it against patent lawsuits. Motorola¡¦s handsets¡Xwhich are positioned as higher-end phones than Lenovo¡¦s¡Xalso have a higher gross margin, or profit after deducting the cost of goods sold, Mr. Yang said.
Despite that higher margin, Motorola¡¦s handsets aren¡¦t profitable, in part because the company¡¦s costs are high, analysts say. But Mr. Yang repeated his forecast that Motorola would be back in the black in six months, after it combines forces with Lenovo to make its phones more cost-effectively.
Lenovo¡¦s mobile engineers are spending a lot of time with their Motorola counterparts to exchange ideas on new products and technologies, some of which might be unveiled next spring, said Mr. Yang, without disclosing details.
Motorola is discussing whether and how to use Lenovo¡¦s factories to manufacture some of its phones, which would raise the factories¡¦ utilization rate and help reduce costs, Motorola President Rick Osterloh said in a recent interview. By sharing Lenovo¡¦s vast supply chain for smartphones, tablet computers and PCs, Motorola could win better deals for components such as screens and camera modules that could help differentiate its smartphones¡¦ features without raising their prices¡Xsomething that wasn¡¦t possible when its market share was tiny, analysts say.
¡§Lenovo can help us expand in ways that Google cannot,¡¨ said Mr. Osterloh. ¡§The major difference is that we are going to be part of a company that really understands hardware.¡¨
Lenovo is also preparing to reintroduce Motorola handsets to China, where the U.S. company hasn¡¦t sold phones since 2012. Mr. Yang said Motorola has a significant opportunity in China, because it can position itself as one of a handful of high-end brands.
¡§In the premium segment, there are only two players, Apple and Samsung,¡¨ and Motorola can be another one, Mr. Yang said in an interview. ¡§Many people in China still remember the Motorola brand¡Kwe can reintroduce that brand,¡¨ he said.
Still, analysts say success for Lenovo and Motorola is far from guaranteed, and they will face tougher competition from market leader Samsung, which will likely become more aggressive in its attempt to regain lost ground.
¡§Samsung is not going to let Lenovo and Motorola continue to steal its market share,¡¨ said Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Alberto Moel. The South Korean smartphone company will likely launch more affordable models in emerging markets to better compete against Lenovo, he said.
