<title:>Tech
Acer Reports Narrow Third-Quarter Profit on Cost Cuts; Revenue Continues to Fall Amid Global PC Slump
<Date:>6 November 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XTaiwanese personal-computer maker Acer Inc. reported a narrow profit for a third consecutive quarter after cost cuts, though revenue continued to fall as the global market for personal computers contracts.
Acer, the world¡¦s fourth-largest PC maker by shipments, has steadied its business this year with a new management team after three years of losses. The company was hit particularly hard as consumers shifted to mobile devices.
Acer posted a net profit of 651 million New Taiwan dollars (US$21.3 million) in the third quarter, versus a record NT$13.1 billion net loss a year ago. Revenue slid to NT$85.7 billion from NT$92.1 billion a year earlier.
Its operating margin was 1.3%, compared with 0.8% in the second quarter and negative 2.8% a year earlier.
Acer Chief Executive Jason Chen was recruited from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. at the beginning of the year, and has since cut costs, partly via layoffs and slashing executive salaries, to return the company to profit. He joined after Acer¡¦s top two executives resigned after taking responsibility for continued losses.
In the third quarter, Acer and other major PC players benefited from market consolidation as smaller competitors retreated from the market, according to market-research firm International Data Corp. Shipments grew for Acer and its larger rivals Lenovo Group Ltd., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. even as the total market shrank by 1.7%. Acer¡¦s market share grew to 8.4% from 7.4% a year earlier.
Steven Tseng, an analyst at Taiwanese brokerage Daiwa, said Acer has sold more low-cost Chromebooks this year than in the past, in an effort to boost volume and gain scale.
Acer¡¦s founder has said the company is developing cloud-computing services, and will begin selling at least one product next year. Analysts remain skeptical about its potential as an earnings contributor in the near future.
Acer also announced Thursday it promoted Jerry Kao to president of its core notebook business group, where he was a general manager. The notebook business had been overseen by Jackson Lin, chief technology officer and president of Acer¡¦s design center, who will now focus on research and development.
