<title:>Business
Twitter to Open Office in Hong Kong
<Date:>6 November 2014
<Content:>
SINGAPORE¡XTwitter Inc. plans to open an office in Hong Kong early next year to serve greater China and tap advertising revenues from Chinese companies that are quickly expanding, an executive said.
Shailesh Rao, Twitter¡¦s vice president for Asia Pacific, the Americas and emerging markets, told The Wall Street Journal in an interview that the office will mainly house sales staff, though he declined to say how many. The office is set to open in the first quarter of 2015.
¡§The real main focus of the office will be sales,¡¨ Mr. Rao said. ¡§Building sales capability to work with agencies and advertisers domestically in Hong Kong and Taiwan and those Chinese advertisers looking to go global.¡¨
Twitter has been blocked in China since 2009 due to government concerns it could be used to organize protests. Asked if plans for the Hong Kong office signaled Twitter¡¦s eagerness to enter China should the government lift its restriction, Mr. Rao said, ¡§We would love to have Twitter¡¨ reach people ¡§everywhere in the world including China.¡¨ But, he added, ¡§Unfortunately, we can¡¦t. That¡¦s not our choice. We don¡¦t control that decision.¡¨
A year after its initial public offering, Twitter last week said its third-quarter revenue more than doubled to $361 million. But the company¡¦s user growth slowed again after gaining momentum in recent quarters, sparking concern among investors. The company has yet to turn a profit.
While 77% of the San Francisco-based company¡¦s 284 million users are outside the U.S., the company derives just 34% of its revenue internationally, though that percentage has been rising in recent quarters.
The Hong Kong office will be headed by Peter Greenberger, Twitter¡¦s Singapore-based director of sales for emerging markets. Mr. Greenberger earlier led Twitter¡¦s Washington, D.C. sales team focusing on political campaigns.
Twitter in August said it would open an office in Jakarta to work more closely with advertisers and marketers in Indonesia, which analysts say is one of its biggest markets. That office has yet to open.
The company has an office in Singapore, which opened last year, and elsewhere in the Asian-Pacific region maintains offices in Seoul, Tokyo and Sydney.
Meanwhile, Google Inc. has an office in Hong Kong, as does Facebook Inc., whose co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, last month visited Beijing and delivered a speech in Chinese. Like Twitter, both Google and Facebook offer services that are also blocked in China.
Mr. Rao called the blockbuster $25 billion initial public offering in September by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China¡¦s largest e-commerce company, significant because it signals Chinese companies¡¦ desire to become global players. That could be good news for Twitter, which derives most of its revenue from advertising.
Mr. Rao said Chinese smartphone makers Huawei Technologies Co. and Xiaomi Inc., as well as computer and phone maker Lenovo Group Ltd., are ¡§poised for global expansion¡¨ along with Alibaba. He also highlighted Taiwanese personal-computer makers Acer Inc. and Asustek Computer Inc., known to many consumers as Asus.
