<title:>Tech
H-P Seeks Local Buyer for Networking Business in China; Tech Firm Plans to Sell Majority Stake in Unit Amid U.S.-China Tension
<Date:>26 October 2014
<Content:>
Hewlett-Packard Co.¡¦s effort to sell a majority stake in its networking business in China to a local buyer is the latest example of tension between the U.S. and China affecting the ability of technology firms from both countries to do business in each others¡¦ markets.
H-P has begun sounding out private-equity firms in China on their interest in buying H3C Technologies Co., the U.S. company¡¦s corporate-networking unit in the country, people familiar with the matter said Friday. The process is in the early stages and H-P may sell only 51% of H3C, assuming a deal is reached at all, the people said. In a full sale, the business could be worth roughly $5 billion, one of them said.
Over the past few years, tension has risen between the U.S. and China because of mutual suspicion of potential hacking into each other¡¦s telecommunications and Internet networks through equipment supplied by their respective technology companies. U.S. lawmakers compiled a report in 2012 alleging that telecom equipment from Huawei Technologies Co. could be used by Beijing to spy on Americans. The report recommended that U.S. telecom carriers avoid Huawei¡¦s gear. Huawei has rebutted security concerns regarding its equipment.
In China, U.S. providers of technology infrastructure, including H-P and International Business Machines Corp., have faced challenges in part because government agencies and sensitive industries like financial services increasingly turned to domestic vendors like Huawei, according to component suppliers working with both Huawei and its U.S. competitors.
Traditional providers of corporate-networking gear also have been buffeted by low-cost alternatives competitors are offering via the Internet. Earlier this month, IBM completed a deal to sell its x86 server business to Chinese computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd. for $2.1 billion.
¡§In China, all the foreign companies have had trouble in the last several years¡¨ in the market for computer servers, said Adalio Sanchez, who headed IBM¡¦s x86 server business and will continue to lead the business under Lenovo, in a recent interview. ¡§But now, under the Lenovo umbrella, we think we have the flexibility to become Chinese, to be more palatable to the China government and China customer base,¡¨ he said.
People familiar with the matter said that in order for a deal for H3C to win Chinese government approval, the buyer likely needs to be locally based.
In an interview in September, Eric Xu, Huawei¡¦s acting chief executive, said the company wants China to be an open market. ¡§If China becomes a closed market, that would be a tragedy for Chinese companies,¡¨ because lack of competition makes them less motivated to keep improving their products, he said.
Mr. Xu declined to comment at that time on whether government policies are giving Huawei advantages against U.S. rivals in China.
H3C is a major supplier of corporate data-networking gear in China. The unit, which H-P inherited when it bought 3Com Corp. for $2.7 billion in 2010, has 5,000 employees world-wide, according to its website.
H-P doesn¡¦t break out results for the unit, which sells products such as routers, software and switches, but the company¡¦s networking business overall generated $2.53 billion in sales last year, up from $2.48 billion in 2012, according to its annual report.
The Palo Alto, Calif., company may retain a sizable minority stake in H3C in any deal, the people said. H-P also wants to continue using H3C¡¦s low-cost manufacturing, one of the people said.
H3C was formed in November 2003 as a joint venture between Huawei and 3Com. It grew quickly into a force in the mainland telecommunications market before 3Com bought out Huawei in 2006. That paved the way for H-P to acquire the business when it took over 3Com.
Another Chinese technology company could buy H3C, though it is more likely to be sold to a private-equity group, according to the people familiar with the matter.
It¡¦s not clear whether Huawei is a possible buyer, but the company has said it won¡¦t engage in any big deals in coming years and instead will focus on its own operations on research and development.
H-P is in the midst of a dramatic reordering. The Silicon Valley pioneer this month announced a plan to split into two pieces¡Xone focused on corporate buyers of hardware and services and the other on selling personal computers and printers, each with more than $50 billion in annual revenue. H-P has indicated that it could augment the corporate business through acquisitions, and a sale of H3C could give it cash to bolster that effort.
Before it announced the split, H-P for months was engaged in talks to combine with data-storage giant EMC Corp., in a deal that would create a technology-industry giant valued at more than $120 billion at current market values. Those talks ended, people familiar with the matter have said.
