<title:>Tech
Xiaomi Makes a Profit on Its Cheap Smartphones; Chinese Tech Firm¡¦s Earnings Rose 84% Last Year
<Date:>5 November 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG¡XChinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc., which was founded just four years ago, already is among the world¡¦s largest smartphone makers.
Now a confidential document viewed by The Wall Street Journal shows that Xiaomi¡¦s net profit nearly doubled last year, making it a lucrative business in an industry where most players selling cheap handsets struggle to break even.
Xiaomi, which a few months ago surpassed Samsung Electronics Co. as the biggest smartphone vendor in China by shipments, presented the document to banks in its recent pitch to raise $1 billion in loans for overseas expansion or acquisition.
A table in the document showed that Xiaomi¡¦s net profit last year rose 84% to 3.46 billion yuan ($566 million) from 1.88 billion yuan in 2012. Its revenue more than doubled to 27 billion yuan. Another table included a forecast of a 75% net profit increase this year.
A Xiaomi spokeswoman declined to comment.
Xiaomi¡¦s rapid growth and strong earnings are also part of broader changes in the smartphone market where Chinese players are greatly increasing their presence, challenging the dominance of Samsung and Apple Inc.
Over the past year, some of China¡¦s top smartphone vendors, such as Lenovo Group Ltd. and Huawei Technologies Co., have been expanding overseas, posing a threat to Samsung in Asia, Latin America and other emerging markets.
Xiaomi¡¦s profit flies in the face of many analysts¡¦ belief that the Chinese company¡¦s rock-bottom pricing for its phones to increase market share has come at the expense of profit.
Its cheapest phone, the Redmi 1S, starts at 699 yuan ($114), and its latest flagship model, the Mi4, starts at 1,999 yuan ($327).
A possible explanation for Xiaomi¡¦s ability to squeeze out so much profit while selling affordable phones is its inexpensive but efficient marketing tactics.
While established competitors spend heavily on TV commercials and other traditional forms of advertising, Xiaomi¡¦s marketing has centered on social media and Internet forums where many users post comments, complaints and requests.
In China, Xiaomi has expanded rapidly over the past few years by selling its phones online, relying on word-of-mouth among China¡¦s more than 600 million Internet users.
By interacting with users online and often tweaking its software and features based on their input, Xiaomi has built a loyal fan base in China. This strategy hasn¡¦t only proven effective in retaining users, but has also helped the company save on marketing cost, analysts say.
According to the document, Xiaomi spent 876 million yuan, or 3.2% of its revenue, on sales and marketing expenses last year. Its spending in 2012 was 416 million yuan, or 3.9% of its revenue.
After seeing the success of Xiaomi¡¦s marketing strategy, many other Chinese handset makers have started focusing more on online marketing, using social media as a way to engage with consumers.
The document also provided some details on how Xiaomi earns its revenue. Even though the company sells smartphone applications, other software and services, 94% of its revenue came from handset sales last year, according to the document. Sales of services such as mobile games accounted for only 1% of its revenue.
¡§Xiaomi has done a great job of growing smartphone shipments and profits simultaneously,¡¨ said Strategy Analytics analyst Neil Mawston. Still, analysts say it is unclear whether Xiaomi can sustain its profit margin, as China¡¦s smartphone market is becoming crowded and saturated.
As competition intensifies at home, Xiaomi has expanded overseas in Asian emerging markets such as India.
Despite its growth, Xiaomi will likely face many hurdles in its international expansion. In mature markets such as the U.S., where it is critical for smartphone makers to secure access to intellectual property to defend themselves from patent lawsuits, Xiaomi will likely have difficulties expanding unless it finds ways to boost its patent portfolio, analysts say.
To finance its expansion outside China, Xiaomi is currently seeking another round of equity fundraising, according to people familiar with the situation. The next round will likely give Xiaomi a much higher valuation than the previous rounds. In August 2013, Xiaomi said it raised a fourth round of funding that valued the firm at $10 billion, more than double its June 2012 valuation of $4 billion.
Xiaomi¡Xpronounced ¡§sheow-me¡¨¡Xwas founded in 2010 by Lei Jun, an entrepreneur who has been compared by Chinese media to Steve Jobs. Just a year into its existence, the company was already successful in creating a buzz around its products, starting with its social networking app called MiTalk, which attracted seven million users in two months.
When Xiaomi launched its first smartphone, the Mi1, in late 2011, the first batch of shipments¡X100,000 units¡Xsold out in less than three hours.
Xiaomi also runs its own mobile-app store, called the Mi Market, and offers a host of smartphone services such as games, social networking and cloud storage. It offers entertainment such as movies. Through its online store, the company sells accessories such as phone cases and dolls of its rabbit mascot.
Xiaomi¡¦s share of the global smartphone market rose to 5.3% in the third quarter, making it the third-largest smartphone maker after Samsung and Apple, according to a market-research firm IDC. In the coming quarters, Lenovo, whose market share in the quarter was almost the same as Xiaomi¡¦s, is expected to become the third-largest player, as it recently completed its acquisition of Motorola Mobility.
