<title:> Laird's 3rd-quarter revenue rises as phone makers snap up components
<Date:>673 words
<Content:>
Apple Inc.'s iCloud service for users in mainland China has been hit by an attack that could allow perpetrators to intercept and see usernames, passwords and other personal data, activists and security analysts said.
Though the perpetrator's identity was unclear, the attack came as tensions between the U.S. and Chinese governments have simmered over accusations of cyberespionage and hacking attacks. The online censorship watchdog GreatFire.org claimed Chinese authorities were behind the attack, though other experts said the source couldn't be determined.
A spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry said she was unaware of the matter and reiterated Beijing's position that it opposes cyberattacks.
Apple said in a statement on its website that it is aware of "intermittent organized network attacks" aimed at obtaining user information from iCloud.com. Apple said the attacks don't compromise the company's iCloud servers and don't affect iCloud sign-in on Apple devices running its iOS mobile software or Macs running OS X Yosemite using its Safari browser.
Apple said users should not sign into iCloud.com if they receive a warning from their browser that it is not a trusted site. This suggests that the user has been compromised.
Apple didn't mention China in its statement.
Concerns about the iCloud service in China began to emerge over the weekend when tech-savvy Chinese Internet users -- seeing warning messages on their Internet browsers -- raised suspicions in online discussion groups that the iCloud server's communications with users in China had been compromised.
Taiwan-based Chinese Internet activist Zhou Shuguang tested the service and found that communication channels between iCloud users and the iCloud server had been hijacked by an attacker in what is known as a "man-in-the-middle" tactic, Mr. Zhou said. Separately, Erik Hjelmvik, an analyst with Netresec AB, a network-security-software vendor in Sweden, said Tuesday he reviewed data posted online by Chinese Internet users and arrived at a similar conclusion.
"It's evident that it's quite massive," Mr. Hjelmvik said. He said the perpetrators were able to attack users in different parts of China who used different Internet service providers. "The attack was quite sophisticated in that they apparently have quite a huge system set up in order to be able to intercept on such a large scale."
The attack meant unauthorized parties would be able to decrypt the communication between iCloud users and the server, analysts said. This puts the iCloud users' usernames, passwords, files, pictures and contacts at risk of being seen unencrypted.
Activists like GreatFire.org accused the Chinese government of the attack. But some security analysts raised skepticism that Beijing, with sizable resources at its disposal, would order an attack that is so easily detected.
"This doesn't seem like the sort of attack an adversary with the resources of a government would attempt, since connecting users would see a very obvious security warning from their browser. It's more likely the sort of attack you'd see from someone with limited resources," said Kevin Milner, a researcher working on Internet infrastructure security at Oxford University.
The attack is the latest blow to Apple after a leak of celebrity photos from its iCloud system last month raised concerns about whether the service provides sufficient security.
Analysts pointed out that the reports of the attack surfaced around the time of the launch in China of Apple's latest iPhone, equipped with stronger encryption. In the wake of revelations by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, Apple said it would use encryption on its phones that would prevent law enforcement from retrieving data on them.
Similar attacks have been reported in recent months affecting Chinese-based users accessing Google Inc. through a particular network, as well as Microsoft Corp.'s Hotmail services. Google and Microsoft didn't respond to requests for comment.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
