<title:>Reuters Entertainment News Summary
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs.
Animated robots, trolls and the dead dig up new film fans
An oversized personal health-care robot assistant might seem out of place next to the princesses and furry animals that have won over legions of fans, young and old, in animated films. But for every young girl belting out "Frozen" princess anthem "Let It Go," Walt Disney Co is betting there's a nerd who will root for the geeks and robot fighting evil in "Big Hero 6."
Oscar de la Renta remembered for his elegant designs, generosity
Oscar de la Renta, the legendary fashion designer who dressed first ladies and Hollywood stars during a career that spanned five decades, was remembered on Tuesday for his exquisite style, generous heart and tireless philanthropy. Tributes poured in for the tall, Dominican-born designer who died late on Monday at the age of 82, surrounded by family at his Connecticut home after a battle with cancer.
Blogs, videos and verse: an Iraqi poet's quest to heal her homeland
Iraqi-born poet Amal al-Jubouri may not have the Hollywood recognition of Angelina Jolie, but both women are artists who have decided to use their talents and profile to help the victims of war. When al-Jubouri, one of foremost poets writing in Arabic, met Jolie this year, she urged the actress and U.N. humanitarian envoy to go with her and see the worsening hardships in her homeland. Jolie has already visited Iraq in previous years.
A Minute With: Shailene Woodley on teen sex, violence and Marvel
For actress Shailene Woodley, transitioning from her teen years into adulthood in Hollywood was an emotional experience. "When I saw 'Fault in Our Stars' for the first time, I started crying," Woodley said of her hit coming-of-age cancer film earlier this summer.
Popular Mexican musician shot dead in cartel-riddled northwest
A member of Banda el Recodo, a traditional Mexican band also popular in the United States, was found dead from a gunshot to the neck on Wednesday in the northwestern Mexican resort city of Mazatlan, the group and local authorities said. Aldo Sarabia, who played the tuba in the group, was reported missing last week.
Sax and the City: Kenny G hits sour note in China with Hong Kong visit
Best-selling U.S. jazz musician Kenny G struck a bum note in China when he appeared among Hong Kong's pro-democracy protesters, prompting the country's foreign ministry to warn foreigners to keep their noses out. The saxophonist, whose real name is Kenny Gorelick, confirmed he had visited a protest site after pictures of him appeared on Twitter on Wednesday.
Conductor Chailly: Appeasing La Scala's 'gods' with Italian opera
Italian conductor Riccardo Chailly knows that Milan's legendary La Scala opera house, where he takes over as principal conductor in January, is a political and cultural pressure cooker. So he's going to give the public what it wants: Italian opera. That might seem like a no-brainer - Italian opera in Italy's most famous opera house. But outgoing music director Daniel Barenboim riled some of the famously opinionated La Scala audience by opening the 2012-2013 season - a joint 200th birthday year for Germany's Richard Wagner and Italy's Giuseppe Verdi - with Wagner's "Lohengrin".
U2 album stumbles in Billboard chart after free iTunes debut
U2's controversial free album on Apple's iTunes had a less than stellar performance once released for commercial sale, coming in at No. 9 in its first week on the Billboard 200 album chart on Wednesday. Country group Florida Georgia Line far outperformed the Irish rockers by selling 197,000 copies of "Anything Goes" in its first week for the top spot on the chart, compared with U2's 28,000 units sold, according to sales figures compiled by Nielsen SoundScan.
Argentine luthier turns beat-up skateboards into electric guitars
Working a pedal-powered carpentry machine, Argentine luthier Ezequiel Galasso is giving beat-up skateboards a new lease on life, recycling them into electric guitars coveted by the likes of American rock band Pearl Jam. In one corner of his workshop in Almagro, Buenos Aires' up-and-coming tango district, skateboard decks stripped of their black grip tape and wheels are piled high.
Filming in fear: Edward Snowden as 'Citizenfour'
U.S. documentary maker Laura Poitras has found herself in many a risky situation in Iraq and Yemen. But she never felt in as much danger as when she was filming Edward Snowden in a Hong Kong hotel while he prepared to blow the whistle on massive secret surveillance programs run by the U.S. government. Those tense eight days form the centerpiece of "Citizenfour," her account of how the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor decided in 2013 to release to the media tens of thousands of classified documents, and the global repercussions of that action. 
Released: 2014-10-23T05:55:18.000Z
