<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
A Reason to Stress About Europe Banks
When everyone is staring in one direction, it often pays to look the other way.
European bank stocks have endured a wild ride as the Continent's "stress test" results near. The European Central Bank is due to release them Sunday. Greek, Portuguese and some Italian and Spanish banks have suffered especially.
That is understandable. There are plenty of questions about European banks' capital strength. And no one wants to own a bank that comes asking for more equity.
But too many banks have been tainted by this worry. So there is a good chance that solid, unloved institutions will rally once the uncertainty of the stress tests is past and investors can refocus on the ECB's stimulus efforts.
If, that is, the tests are credible. A lot rides on the stress tests for the ECB, which takes over eurozone bank supervision from national governments next month.
Its reputation will be based on its review of banks' books and the stress tests.
The last tests under the sole supervision of the European Banking Authority were risible; several banks passed only to require bailouts later.
Even with the ECB now at the helm, there is skepticism about how conclusive the tests will be. Europe, after all, has many competing voices and levels of economic health. Muddy political compromise is a near-inevitable outcome.
And the European tests can never draw the same bright line as did those in the U.S. in 2009. The ECB, for example, can tell a bank it must raise capital. But it can't promise that a government will inject some if the bank can't or won't.
However, because the last European tests didn't work and the ECB's own credibility rests on the new ones, there is a decent chance they will be good enough. While some banks will indeed fail, investors may find there is opportunity to be had in a glass-half-full approach.
As things now stand, banks such as ING Groep of the Netherlands and Credit Agricole or even BNP Paribas of France aren't valued as recovery stories with big gains due from once-bad assets. Nor are they shunned as weaklings or firms overburdened by regulatory fines to come.
ING has cleaned up its balance sheet, sold insurance businesses and is cutting funding costs. Credit Agricole has seen its capital base grow strongly, although a lot has come from investment gains in its insurance unit. BNP Paribas has yet to resolve a U.S. dollar-clearing ban that arose from its sanctions busting, but is performing well otherwise and should benefit from ECB monetary actions.
All three are valued at less than 0.9 times book value, while ING and BNP also have unchallenging forward price/earnings ratios of about 10 times. Credit Agricole trades at 11.5 times forward earnings, but has a lower book value multiple of 0.6 times.
A credible-enough stress-test result could see these kinds of banks rerated. If BNP's valuation moves up to the multiple of J.P. Morgan Chase's at about 0.94 times, for example, that would lift BNP's shares more than 30%.
Investors with a higher risk appetite also could look at weaker banks that might still pass, especially if hedge funds have bet heavily against those stocks. Their prices could leap if investors are forced to buy back stock to cover those short wagers.
Portugal's Banco Comercial Portugues and smaller Spanish banks like Sabadell and Banco Popular Espanol have heavy so-called short interest, according to data from Markit Group. Notably, the second-most-shorted bank stock in the Stoxx 600 is ING.
Beyond the stress tests, Europe still faces low economic growth and low interest rates, so it will be some time before banks see lending and interest-income growth. Then again, things have been so desperate that any signs of life would be good. And, should credible stress tests relieve capital concerns, European bank stocks will be looked at in a different way.
-- Paul J. Davies
BOE's Gloomier Outlook
Challenges U.K. Debt Bet
A bet that yields on U.K. and German government bonds would diverge has been a profitable strategy as markets increasingly priced in a strong U.K. recovery versus a lackluster eurozone performance. The latest Bank of England minutes, published Wednesday, show why that wager may be running out of steam.
The trade has worked ever since September 2012, when yields on 10-year U.K. gilts and German bunds were virtually level at around 1.55%, according to FactSet data. Since then, bund yields have fallen to 0.84% while gilt yields have risen to 2.22%. Since bond yields and prices move in inverse relation, this means gilt prices have fallen while those of bunds have risen.
But recent market volatility has taken its toll. The gap between the benchmark instruments has tightened from its widest level above 1.5 percentage points in September, when gilt yields hit 2.57%.
And there is growing reason to believe that the yield gap will have a tough time widening as significantly again. Inflation in the U.K. declined unexpectedly to 1.2% in September, well below the BOE's 2% target. And while the U.K. economy is expected to continue to grow, the pace may slow somewhat.
The third-quarter reading for U.K. growth, due Friday, will be closely watched in this regard. It isn't clear how well the U.K. can withstand weak growth in Europe and emerging markets.
The latest BOE minutes underline this. True, two members of the Monetary Policy Committee, Martin Weale and Ian McCafferty, continued to vote for a 0.25-percentage-point rate increase. That was despite the fact the committee knew the low inflation number when it met.
But the other seven committee members seemed to be more concerned about global developments and a lack of domestic inflationary pressures. BOE chief economist Andrew Haldane last week noted that his view of the economy was "gloomier" than a few months ago. Wage inflation seems likely to be the key factor to watch. So far, it has been notable by its absence.
The somewhat weaker outlook for the U.K. is a problem for the gilt-bund trade. Set against that, the eurozone position looks much more worrying. The ECB is still under pressure to loosen policy further; the U.K., by contrast, is still looking at rate increases, albeit starting later than the market thought until recently.
So the yield gap could widen again. But the big money likely has been made on this trade already.
-- Richard Barley
Samsung Finds Strength in Family
It is time to stop thinking of Samsung Electronics as a smartphone company.
Samsung's runaway success the past few years in smartphones had investors wondering if the South Korean giant could become the next Apple. That seems increasingly unlikely. But Samsung's leading position in less sexy chips, displays and other parts, plus its cheap valuation, still make it a company worth owning.
Samsung's mobile division, dominated by smartphones, brought in more than two-thirds of the company's operating profit last year, up from just around one-quarter in 2010. Yet that era of smartphone dominance was short-lived. The mobile division was likely the main culprit behind the company's forecast for a 60% decline in third-quarter operating profit. Shares are down nearly 20% this year.
There seems little prospect of a smartphone turnaround in the near future, given intense competition at the high end from Apple. At the low end is heat from Chinese handset makers.
The outlook is less gloomy for Samsung's components businesses. In memory chips, it is the leader in both technology and in terms of scale in an industry once riven by competition, but now consolidated to just a handful of profitable players.
The stock looks cheap at eight times forward earnings and 1.1 times book value, below the 10-year averages of 10 times earnings and 1.7 times book. Back out $44.4 billion of net cash, and it trades at just six times forward earnings.
Even assuming Samsung's mobile business is worthless, which it isn't, the stock looks undervalued. Putting the chip business at two times book value -- a discount to rivals, which trade at an average of nearly three times -- and adding Samsung's cash and investments, leaves a higher valuation than the current market capitalization, notes Mark Newman of Bernstein Research.
In fact, Samsung has been cheap, at around eight times earnings or below, since the middle of 2012, even before the smartphone business peaked. What is missing is a catalyst to unlock value.
Investors have agitated for the company to return more of its massive cash reserves to boost the stock. Samsung had hinted for months that it would unveil a detailed plan to send more cash to shareholders with its first-half results, only to backtrack in July, saying it needed more time.
This foot-dragging is partially explained by the stock's true problem: the convoluted structure through which the Lee family controls the broader Samsung empire. Since family patriarch Lee Kun-hee was hospitalized with a heart attack earlier this year, his children appear to have started work on an opaque plan to rearrange assets.
One likely objective is to consolidate control over crown jewel Samsung Electronics, in which Lee family members hold only a small direct stake. This means they would benefit little from a distribution of cash to shareholders before the reshuffle.
Similarly, Mr. Lee's heirs face a 50% inheritance tax on his stake in Samsung Electronics. There is little incentive for them to boost the share price beforehand.
Samsung's smartphone woes look set to continue. But bright prospects for its other business aren't reflected in the share price. For now, investors will have to wait for that value to be unlocked by the Lee family.
-- Aaron Back
Overheard
Gold and platinum are prized for their rarity. What is happening with their prices right now is also pretty unusual.
At about $1,245 an ounce, gold isn't far off parity with platinum at about $1,270. This doesn't happen often. In the past 20 years, gold has matched or exceeded the platinum price only about 7% of the time. And much of that occurred between the summer of 2011 and early 2013, when quantitative easing was in full swing and hyperbole about the dollar's demise was at its height.
Similarly, the current price action reflects an anxious world. Gold hasn't really gained much this year; rather, platinum has collapsed since July. This makes sense. as more than half of platinum demand relates to industrial, primarily, automotive uses. Deflation fears have hurthave industrial commodities.
Gold usually benefits when such extreme scenarios seem plausible. There is one twist: Negative inflation would imply rising real interest rates. The latter erode the case for holding nonyielding assets such as precious metals. Even so, the rare melding of gold and platinum prices is an unwelcome sign that optimism about growth is rapidly becoming the rarest commodity of all.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
