<title:>By Ned Levin and Yvonne Lee   
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG -- As Hong Kong lumbers through its fourth week of pro-democracy protests, the variety of coverage in the local media has laid bare differences in visions for the city's future.
Hong Kong has free-speech protections not available on the mainland, and the territory's 18 daily newspapers and multiple television and radio channels have given the student-led protests wall-to-wall coverage, airing multiple -- often clashing -- viewpoints.
On one side are pro-Beijing newspapers like Ta Kung Pao, which portrays the protests as illegal and unruly. On the other is Apple Daily, which is known for a strident anti-Beijing stance and has long backed calls for a democratic procedure to select the city's politicians.
"You have a spectrum," said Yuen-Ying Chan, director of the Journalism and Media Studies Centre at the University of Hong Kong. "Between them, you try to find the truth."
The split has been clear in the coverage of events. Last week, the beating of a demonstrator by Hong Kong police was caught on video and led to the suspension of the officers allegedly involved. The incident led to diverging news reports.
Apple Daily splashed "Seven Demon Police Surround and Beat Protester for Four Minutes" across its front page, accompanied by photos of the demonstrator's bruised back and face.
Ta Kung Pao focused on what it called the violent behavior of protesters, whom police had been trying to clear from a tunnel before the beating. "Police Assaulted," one of the headlines read, while another labeled protesters "Roadside Despots."
The student-led protesters want anyone to be able to stand for the city's first democratic elections, slated for 2017. China's government ruled this summer that candidates must first be screened by a nominating committee largely loyal to Beijing.
Students took to the streets in late September, blocking major intersections. They gained support from some residents and condemnation from others. There have been few surveys on support for the protests, leaving media outlets as a battleground for public opinion.
While battle lines have long been drawn between papers like Ta Kung Pao and Apple Daily, free-speech advocates say they are uneasy about the dominance of other mainstream newspapers by tycoons with business interests in China. "The temptation, of course, is to not offend mainland China," Ms. Chan said.
Ming Pao is owned by Malaysian timber tycoon Tiong Hiew King; the English-language South China Morning Post is owned by Malaysia's Kuok family, whose interests include agribusiness and hotels; while Richard Li, son of Asia's richest man, Li Ka-shing, owns the Hong Kong Economic Journal and a pay-TV channel.
Alice Kwok, the chief editor of the Hong Kong Economic Journal, said she didn't feel any pressure from Beijing on how to cover the protests. Ming Pao and the South China Morning Post declined to comment. Ta Kung Pao didn't respond to requests to comment.
Apple Daily -- whose owner, Jimmy Lai, says he has no business dealings in mainland China -- perhaps has faced the most difficulties during the protests.
The newspaper has experienced attacks on its website and demonstrations by pro-Beijing groups outside a complex containing its headquarters and printing plant, delaying the distribution of newspapers.
Officials at Next Media, Apple Daily's parent company, said sales of print copies have increased during the protests. Mr. Lai, a businessman who founded the newspaper in the 1990s, has shrugged off the attacks. "We don't feel any threat," Mr. Lai said. "They are just nuisances."
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
