<title:>By Lizette Chapman   
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
A startup that powers Latin American banks delivering services to people via mobile, ATMs, and online has secured $13 million in Series B funding from investors including Intel Capital.
Miami-based Technisys SA, founded in 1996, employs 300. It has grown as the region's middle class has exploded, with clients including Citibank, Banco Itau, Banco Estado de Chile and Banco Original seeking to reach customers through multiple channels for services including savings, payments and loans. The company is tracking to do $30 million in revenue this year.
"The banks should be reaching the customer in a holistic way. That means allowing them to connect via the Web, tablet, ATMs, smartphones and new wearable devices," Technisys Chief Executive Miguel Santos said.
Technisys, like legacy players SAP and Oracle Corp., unifies the information siloed within those applications and gives banks a more streamlined way to securely interact with customers.
The role of banks in Latin America, where some 60% of adults don't have accounts, according to a 2012 study by the World Bank, is at an interesting juncture. Along with facing competition from major retailers like Wal-Mart offering in-store banking services, startups such as Boku Inc. and Mopay AG and services Google Wallet and Apple Pay make it easy for consumers to pay for goods and services with their mobile phones.
Intel Capital Vice President and General Manager for Latin America Steve Long said he met Mr. Santos more than a year ago. He said there was a large opportunity in financial services, and he believes Technisys is well positioned to succeed.
"Banks need solutions that enhance [the] banking experience across channels, increasing revenue opportunities and customer loyalty," Mr. Long said. "Digital channel convergence, which represents the main focus for Technisys, is one of the most relevant trends in digital banking today."
Alta Venture, KaSZeK Ventures, Endeavor Catalyst and existing investor Holdinvest also contributed. The company previously raised $1 million from Holdinvest.
Mr. Santos expanded the financing round's $8 million initial target to $13 million to get additional investors.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
