<title:> Banker Video-Bombs Live Interview With Hong Kong Protesters
<Date:></iframe> A senior J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. banker walking to lunch on Wednesday interrupted a live roundtable webcast on Hong Kong¡¦s pro-democracy protests to express his frustration over the continued street blockage. David Lau, ...
<Content:>
Amazon.com Inc. had what seemed like a mixed day on July 24: It unveiled disappointing second-quarter earnings, but it also began selling its much-anticipated Fire phone.
It now looks like the company got badly burned by its handset ambitions. Despite what appears to be an epic flop, in addition to bad publicity from its tiff with a major publisher and tax issues in Europe, investors seem sanguine. The stock has now recovered from the 10% drop following the July 24 release.
Assuming the bar has been set low enough for third-quarter results, due Thursday, investors should avoid a fourth consecutive tumble following an earnings report. Analysts expect a per-share loss of 75 cents compared with a loss of nine cents a year earlier. Expectations have dropped steadily from a forecast of a 38-cent profit a year ago.
Calling market reaction to Amazon's earnings rash is an understatement. The average change in its shares in the session following an earnings release has been 9% since 2007. Happily, there have been about twice as many pops as drops.
Investors' reaction has had much to do with whether they chose to focus on surging sales or minuscule profits. Amazon expects third-quarter revenue to be 15% to 26% higher than a year before, probably satisfying those watching the top line.
So with the stock down by more than one-fifth in the year to date, is it a temporary bargain or grossly expensive?
That hinges partly on what exactly Amazon is: part megaretailer like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., part bookseller like Barnes & Noble Inc., part phone-and-tablet maker like Apple Inc., part fee-supported shopping club like Costco Wholesale Corp., part cloud-services provider like Rackspace Hosting Inc. and part video streaming service like Netflix Inc.
Those companies sport trailing multiples of debt-adjusted market value to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of between seven and 13.5 times. On revenue, the range is even wider: 0.5 to 4.1 times. On the earnings measure, Amazon is 220% more expensive than the group, on average. On revenue it is 28% cheaper.
Best-in-class in some fields but certainly not all, Amazon's fans insist profitability could surge if it decides to sacrifice growth. Recent weakness shows the market is finally holding management's feet to the fire.
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
