<title:>Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
No Whiplash as China Slows
Don't look for China to derail the global economy just yet.
Official figures show China grew 7.3% in the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest rate since the financial crisis, but far from a hard landing.
On a seasonally adjusted basis, it expanded an annualized 7.8%, a slowdown from the previous quarter's 8.2% rate, but still faster than earlier this year. Those looking for a collapse of the Chinese economy will continue to wait.
The all-important property market remains troubled, but has avoided a free fall. Sales declined 10% in September from the year earlier. That isn't as bad as the previous two months, possibly a mild reaction to a number of stimulus measures the government has unveiled such as cheaper mortgages and removal of restrictions on speculators.
Yet any real-estate recovery will likely be tepid, as unsold inventories continue to expand, up 28% from a year earlier, and prices continue to fall.
Other figures show the economy holding up despite property-market problems. Though still among the weakest readings of the past five years, industrial-production growth recovered to 8% in September from 6.9% in August. Retail sales, adjusted for inflation, expanded 10.8% in September, compared with 10.6% in August.
For deflation worriers in the U.S., China's slowdown adds to the hand-wringing, as its exports to the U.S. will stay cheap. Yet there also are benefits from China's industrial-led slowdown. Prime among them is the self-correcting stimulus to the world provided by weak oil prices. That is one kind of deflation that has typically been a benefit to the U.S. economy.
Another silver lining for the U.S. is that China's demand for services -- outside those related to real estate -- remains healthy. Services now account for over one-quarter of what the U.S. sells to China, up from 15% in 2006. While coal miners don't much like China's industrial slowdown, Hollywood, lawyers, consultants and travel-related businesses should continue to find a robust market there.
Beijing has guided the economy with dribs and drabs of stimulus in the past few months, providing just enough support to ensure a gentle descent. It has resisted broad-based interest-rate cuts, wanting to avoid a return to the old debt-fueled growth playbook. With the government's view on labor markets still optimistic, it will take more evidence of the property market infecting the financial system and overall economy for Beijing's approach to change.
Given the fragile situation in Europe and other emerging markets, it is natural for investors to also fret about China. But for now, a stable slowdown hardly makes China the worst of the world's worries.
-- Alex Frangos
The ECB's Shopping List
Doesn't Stop Expanding
It still is all about the central banks.
That much is clear from the reaction to a report Tuesday that the European Central Bank could decide as soon as December to buy corporate bonds. In short order, the euro fell half a cent against the dollar, stocks and Southern European government-bond prices jumped and the cost to insure investment-grade corporate debt fell. The ECB said no decisions had been taken.
The ECB has been careful not to rule out further stimulus measures beyond those already announced. But the market believes the ECB will have trouble lifting its balance sheet back to the size it was in 2012 -- implying an expansion of 650 billion euros to 1 trillion euros ($832 billion to $1.28 trillion) -- by targeting these instruments. Buying eurozone government bonds is clearly a last-resort option, such a move being politically controversial and practically difficult.
Buying corporate bonds could give the ECB a big market to target; there are 710 billion euros of securities in the Markit iBoxx nonfinancial senior corporate bond index, and issuance is plentiful. And such a move, while radical, isn't beyond the pale. The Bank of England and the Bank of Japan both have bought corporate debt.
But there clearly are risks. First, the ECB already has its hands full. It only started buying covered bonds on Monday and will be handing out fresh loans to banks in December. To throw corporate bonds into the mix so quickly might show a lack of faith in the existing options, a bad signal to send.
Second, there is the question of what the ECB would hope to achieve with such purchases, beyond a short-term boost to market sentiment. The iBoxx nonfinancial index currently yields just 1.44%, down from 2.41% at the end of 2013.
And investment-grade companies have no trouble at all raising money. The bigger issue is whether they are willing to spend it. The ECB could make a difference by buying high-yield bonds, which could boost access to markets for smaller companies. But that is likely a step too far; the ECB already has been stung by criticism that asset-backed-bond purchases will load its balance sheet with junk.
Third, even with a large market, it isn't clear the ECB could expand its balance sheet quickly. Investors may not be willing to sell, as they would face a reinvestment headache. Indeed, that is one reason for the resilience of Europe's corporate-bond market in the current turmoil.
J.P. Morgan Chase economists suggest purchases could reach 50 billion euros over one year, extending to 100 billion euros if market turnover rises. Given a 2 trillion-plus euro balance sheet, that is relatively small.
Despite this, such actions, even if small, ultimately could crowd investors into riskier assets such as stocks. The aim would be to lift prices elsewhere, sparking some confidence that leads to renewed investing and lending. But that may be less effective in Europe than in the U.S., as the continent relies on the banking system to provide financing more than capital markets.
Still, the ECB is facing a clamor for market action that is only getting louder and economic data that is getting worse. Absent unified thinking and action on Europe's fiscal front, the central bank may have little choice but to stay at the center of the action.
-- Richard Barley
Apple's Big Screen Shot
Apple's newest iPhones may not bend easily, but they have tweaked the company's business enough to merit attention -- in a good way.
The company Monday delivered strong results for its fiscal fourth quarter, fueled mainly by better-than-expected sales of the iPhone. Apple launched two new models in the final weeks of the quarter ending in September, enough to boost unit sales by 16%, year over year.
Notably, the average selling price for the smartphone rose to an estimated $603, up more than 4% year over year.
This shouldn't be ignored. Apple is famous for keeping its product offerings simple. Yet its transformation into one to the world's largest tech companies has demanded a more complex approach.
Launching one new smartphone a year wasn't cutting it, as customers were demanding more variety in screen sizes and design. Adding the megasize iPhone 6 Plus this year gave Apple a needed offering in the so-called phablet category that has proved a draw for many consumers.
Another gambit appears to have paid off as well: Apple dropped 32-gigabyte iPhones from its newest offerings, offering 64-gigabyte versions at the same price. Some worried that this -- along with the larger screens -- would depress profitability. But the company's overall gross margin came in at 38% for the quarter, a percentage point higher than last year's launch period of the iPhone 5s and 5c models.
The strong results bode well for Apple going into the December period, which will include more markets for the iPhone -- including China. Wall Street is projecting iPhone unit sales to rise 20% year over year for that period. That looks achievable.
The potential for the Apple Watch that goes on sale next year remains a question mark, as does its newly launched payments service, Apple Pay.
Even so, the stock remains valued at about 14 times earnings -- a bargain given Apple's ability to upsell its flagship product.
-- Dan Gallagher
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
