<title:>Corporate News: Corporate Watch
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
GT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES
Agreement With Apple
allows Sale of Furnaces
GT Advanced Technologies has signed a pact with Apple Inc. for an "amicable parting of the ways," Luc Despins, attorney for the bankrupt supplier to the technology giant, said Tuesday in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New Hampshire.
Apple was involved in a $578 million financing arrangement that set GT Advanced up in the business of making the synthetic sapphire-screen material. Instead of GT Advanced's sapphire, Apple sent the new generation of iPhones out with screens made from a Corning Inc. material.
Mr. Despins said the proposed settlement allows GT Advanced to try to sell the furnaces at the Mesa, Ariz. sapphire-manufacturing facility, and give the money to Apple, which financed the equipment. GT Advanced would surrender its claims against Apple, under the deal, and agree not to disparage the technology giant, he said.
Mr. Despins said GT Advanced and Apple have agreed to file a revised explanation for GT Advanced's surprise bankruptcy filing as part of the pact, and ultimately erase from the public record the court papers that set out what went wrong in the relationship between the two companies.
An Apple representative couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Apple has filed papers under seal in the case.
-- Peg Brickley
---
EMC
Cisco to Sell Portion
Of Stake in VCE Venture
EMC Corp. plans to buy a portion of Cisco Systems Inc.'s stake in a joint venture company called VCE that sells computing gear to corporate customers, people familiar with the matter said.
EMC will pay Cisco a "de minimus" amount for the portion of its stake, one person said. Spokesmen for EMC and Cisco declined to comment.
EMC posted an alert Tuesday stating it would hold a call with news media Wednesday morning to discuss a "new business development."
VCE, an acronym that stands for virtual computing environment, was established in 2009 with investors that also included VMware Inc. and Intel Corp.
Bloomberg reported news of the transaction between EMC and Cisco earlier Tuesday.
-- Joann S. Lublin and Don Clark
---
SAMSUNG
NSA Approves Some
Mobile Devices
Samsung Electronics Co. said the U.S. National Security Agency approved several of its mobile devices for use by government officials to carry classified information, a positive step for the smartphone maker's struggling mobile division.
The development comes as Samsung continues to work slowly but persistently to boost its appeal in the enterprise market by clearing the technological hurdles to ready Galaxy devices for corporate and government customers with high-security needs.
Samsung said on Tuesday that the NSA approved the Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 3 smartphones and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, among others, for use. On the same list of approved devices is Boeing Co.'s Boeing Black phone.
-- Min-Jeong Lee
---
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Improved Sales Don't Rev
Up Profit for Bike maker
Harley-Davidson Inc. reported strong retail sales of its motorcycles and better-than-expected profit for the third quarter. World-wide retail sales at Harley dealers in the latest quarter grew 3.8% from a year earlier.
Despite the improved retail sales, Harley's profit fell 7.8% in the third quarter to $150.1 million, or 69 cents a share, down from $162.7 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue, including financial services, slipped 3.1% to $1.30 billion.
-- James R. Hagerty
License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
