<title:>By Sven Grundberg 
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
STOCKHOLM¡XNokia Corp.¡¦s quarterly earnings gave ample evidence that the company¡¦s main network unit has moved well beyond several years of painful restructuring.
In its earnings report on Thursday, the Finnish former handset giant gave a more bullish full-year financial outlook after swinging back to profit in the third quarter. Its earnings were boosted by a 13% rise in revenue, as the Finnish telecom-equipment supplier deployed high-speed mobile networks in North America and China.
Nokia¡¦s net profit in the quarter was £á747 million ($941 million), compared with a £á91 million loss in the three months to end-September last year, helped also by a large tax gain in the quarter. Revenue rose to £á3.32 billion, higher than market expectations of £á3.02 billion.
¡§Progress was widespread, with four of our six regions increasing sales,¡¨ Nokia¡¦s chief executive, Rajeev Suri, said.
Mr. Suri has headed Nokia¡¦s mobile network unit since 2009 and was appointed as Nokia¡¦s CEO in late April this year, as the company transferred its loss-making phone business to Microsoft Corp. Without its ailing handset business, Nokia is now a mobile networks firm that competes with Huawei Technologies Co. and Ericsson. It also has a Berlin-based digital mapping operation and a large pile of patents.
Nokia¡¦s mobile-network arm, which until recently was plagued with overcapacity and losses after a difficult merger with Siemens¡¦ mobile network unit, has seen a spectacular comeback over the course of the past year, and is currently benefiting from deals with the likes of China Mobile Ltd. and Sprint Corp. in the U.S., which are ramping up their high-speed mobile Internet services.
Nokia updated its outlook for the year, saying it expects a full-year operating profit margin of slightly above 11%, having previously forecast a margin in the high single digits. It confirmed that it expects net sales for its main networks unit to grow on a year-on-year basis in the second half of 2014.
Nokia¡¦s stock rose sharply Thursday on the Helsinki stock exchange after the earnings release, finishing the day 3.5% higher at £á6.74. Analysts widely agreed that the company¡¦s results were impressive.
¡§Retaining [its] market share while implementing such a drastic cost-cutting program is an impressive exercise, which the company should take great pride in,¡¨ Nordea analyst Sami Sarkamies wrote in a note to investors, while cautioning that Nokia¡¦s networks business is a relatively small operation, sensitive to quarterly swings in project invoicing and margins.
Mr. Suri described the performance of the company¡¦s main networks business as ¡§particularly satisfying,¡¨ but cautioned that the unit benefited from some ¡§unique developments¡¨ in the quarter, such as a favorable business and regional mix.
The Finnish company booked a £á2 billion tax benefit in the quarter, which was partly offset by a £á1.2 billion goodwill impairment charge related to its HERE digital mapping unit. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Suri said the accounting charge for HERE was the ¡§right thing to do, considering the track record of HERE and the ways things are progressing.¡¨
Unlike Google Inc. and Apple Inc.¡¦s mapping services, Nokia¡¦s platform largely targets corporate customers, like auto makers and logistics-dependent businesses such as FedEx Corp., which pay licensing fees. Still, the company is about to release free-of-charge map apps for consumers using mobile devices running Google¡¦s Android and Apple¡¦s iOS platform.
Mr. Suri, however, said he isn¡¦t in favor of running adverts on Nokia¡¦s mapping service, as Google does, and that the business will remain geared toward enterprise customers and the automotive industry. He added that while its mapping operation may appear an odd fit next to Nokia¡¦s network business, the company is a suitable owner of the unit.
¡§Nokia is a good owner of HERE, we have a balance sheet that can help the operation,¡¨ he said, adding that combining advanced high-speed network technology with a mapping asset can assist developers of autonomous cars, for instance.
In a separate announcement on Thursday, Nokia said it would appoint Sean Fernback as the new president of its HERE unit. Mr. Fernback, a former TomTom NV executive, joined HERE earlier this year and will succeed Michael Halbherr, who stepped down and left the unit in August.
