<title:>Tech
 Sony  Plans to Turn Game Division into Hub;  Sony  to Develop Service to Stream Games onto Phones, Tablets, Other Devices
<Date:>18 September 2014
<Content:>
CHIBA, Japan¡XFaced with deep losses in its electronics business that caused its stock to plunge Thursday, Sony Corp. is stepping up efforts to turn its better-performing game division into a hub for entertainment services.
Andrew House, chief executive of the game unit, said in an interview Thursday that his unit was talking with a range of potential content partners for a planned Internet television service that Sony intends to introduce in the U.S. by the end of the year. Sony last week disclosed details of one such agreement with Viacom Inc., under which it will be able to stream more than 20 channels, including MTV and Nickelodeon.
Mr. House said Sony also intended to develop a service to stream videogames onto smartphones, tablets and other devices from a range of manufacturers other than Sony.
"A streaming-based approach needs to have a very wide funnel of devices, and that inherently means a broad- and manufacturer-agnostic approach," said Mr. House, who was attending the Tokyo Game Show in this Tokyo suburb.
Since its introduction in November last year, Sony's $399 PlayStation 4 console is selling at the fastest pace on record for any Sony game console. After nine months, it sold 10 million units, far ahead of rivals from Microsoft Corp. and Nintendo Co.
"Sony has the potential to make the game console market its exclusive territory," said Eiichi Katayama, an analyst at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
The growing ambitions for the game division mark a contrast with the electronics business, long the core of Sony but which has had various problems in recent years.
On Wednesday, Sony said it expected a ?230 billion ($2.12 billion) loss in the current fiscal year, driven mainly by a big write-down in its smartphone division where sales fell short of expectations. The disclosure, which came after the market close, pushed Sony shares down 8.6% in Tokyo trading Thursday.
Yasuo Nakane, an analyst at Deutsche Securities, described the move as an "extremely negative surprise," saying additional cuts might be needed. "We think the shape, scale and organizational structure of the (Sony headquarters) and sales company should be revised from scratch based on a downsizing of its core businesses," he wrote in a note to investors.
Sony surprised analysts in July when it reported a modest net profit for the April-June quarter, helped by its game unit's swing into the black. Its smartphone division posted a loss. Sony's Hollywood studio business and its finance arm have also been profit contributors recently.
Analysts say the PlayStation 4 makes it easy for third-party developers to create game software, meaning consumers have a good selection of titles. Sony this week made software to make game titles free of charge for the third-party developers to encourage further games.
At the four-day videogame trade show in the Makuhari Messe convention center outside Tokyo, attention focused on Sony's virtual reality headset, called Morpheus, which the company has been developing since 2011.
Like other such headsets, the Morpheus allows users to feel they are surrounded by the game environment. It also comes with a three-dimensional sound system, making sounds come from above, below and behind. And sensors on the hand-held controller give users the sensation of reaching out in various directions so that they can, say, feed a dinosaur in front of them.
The headset is initially aimed at heavy gamers, but Shuhei Yoshida, who is in charge of the project, said he hoped it would deliver "whole new experiences" for nongamers. He offered the example of a music lover who could don the headset to attend a virtual concert.
While Mr. House of the game unit said there had been no change in strategy for the division since the smartphone woes came to light, he acknowledged pressure to deliver results.
"As one of Sony's senior managers, I take very seriously the overall health of the company," Mr. House said. "My goal is to be absolutely focused on driving a very strong and profit-contributing and healthy ecosystem that can benefit Sony overall."
Sony hopes to leverage its game software to prop up its struggling smartphones. At a recent trade show in Berlin, Sony said its latest smartphone, the Xperia Z3, would come with a feature allowing users to play PlayStation 4 games remotely on the smartphone, if connected to Wi-Fi.
Mr. Katayama, the Bank of America/Merrill Lynch analyst, was cautious about how far the PlayStation 4 could reverse Sony's fortunes. "Games will no doubt be another source of stable earnings, but for a company with such diversified income streams as Sony, it would be wrong to portray games as a business that could support the company alone," he said.
