<title:>Business
Pay-TV ．Cord Cutting・ Accelerates; Subscriber Defections Begin to Hit Satellite TV; Price of Bills Cited
<Date:>6 November 2014
<Content:>
The pay-TV industry contracted in the third quarter at a faster pace than a year earlier, signaling that ：cord cutting； is accelerating as more consumers drop cable and satellite-TV connections.
Overall, the pay-TV industry lost about 179,000 TV customers, a steeper loss from the decline of 83,000 in the year-earlier quarter, according to public company reports and estimates from Wall Street research firm MoffettNathanson LLC. Already, more homes and businesses have dropped pay-TV service in the first three quarters of this year than in the whole of last year, MoffettNathanson estimates.
Subscriber defections came at all the major cable and satellite-TV providers, including Comcast Corp. and DirecTV. On Thursday, Cablevision Systems Corp. said it lost 56,000 video customers, bringing its total to roughly 2.7 million.
Cablevision Chief Executive James Dolan acknowledged the shifting winds in the industry as ：over the top； streaming video services lure customers away from traditional pay TV. ：Ultimately cord-cutting and going to over the top is something we do believe is going to happen and we are preparing ourselves for it,； he said, noting the company・s investments in its broadband network. Cablevision on Thursday reported a 3.7% increase in revenue thanks to rate increases and higher advertising revenue.
Video customer bases shrank at satellite-TV providers as well, which is unusual in a quarter where they typically grow. For years, satellite-TV companies posted gains by taking customers from cable providers, but in the third quarter they lost 40,000 subscribers, compared to a gain of 174,000 a year ago. ：Growth is hitting a wall,； said Craig Moffett, analyst at MoffettNathanson, conjecturing that the increasing importance of broadband may finally be starting to weigh on satellite providers・ results.
DirecTV, long known for its operational expertise and premium brand, said Thursday that it lost 28,000 customers in the quarter. The company also said it is experiencing a higher volume of customer calls relating to the amount of the bill, as people become more price-sensitive in a discount-heavy environment. Customers who leave are ：mentioning price-value and I see more of them claiming they・re going to no pay TV,； said DirecTV Chief Executive Mike White on an earnings conference call. Indeed, several pay TV providers including DirecTV and Cablevision say their subscriber losses were driven in part by their own strategies to let discount-seeking customers fall to the wayside, focusing instead on attracting ：higher value； subscribers willing to pay more.
DirecTV also said the percentage of its customers defecting to cable edged up.
The net contraction for the wider industry was driven by the weaker performance of satellite companies and slower growth at the TV operations of telecom providers Verizon Communications Inc. and AT&T Inc., which together added a combined 330,000, versus 400,000 in the year-ago quarter.
Cable-TV companies actually slowed video customer losses from an estimated 657,000 losses last year to 469,000, thanks in part to more customers choosing newer, cheaper bundles of slimmed-down pay-TV offerings with fast broadband.
The pay-TV industry is under assault from multiple sides. While some customers are cutting the cord entirely, others are simply ：shaving； it by switching to smaller channel packages that cost less. Many operators are aggressively marketing such offerings, figuring it is better to make less revenue off those customers than lose them altogether. Others, including DirecTV and Dish Network Corp., are jumping into the streaming game with their own online video services to be released this year, aimed at households that don・t subscribe to pay television.
The pay-TV industry・s contraction has major implications for TV channel-owners, too. Their growth is increasingly powered by the subscription fees they receive from pay-TV operators, especially given softness in the advertising market.
Pay-TV and media executives broadly acknowledge that some people are dropping their pay-TV subscriptions, but many maintain it・s still a marginal loss given that the overall U.S. market has about 100 million pay-TV homes.
A host of new streaming launches in coming quarters will test the strength of the traditional pay-TV ecosystem. Sony Corp., for example, has said it plans to debut an online video service by the end of the year. Time Warner Inc.・s HBO and CBS Corp.・s Showtime have plans to launch standalone streaming versions of their premium channels next year. CBS three weeks ago launched a $5.99-per-month service that streams CBS programming live and on-demand, except for NFL football.
