<title:>Tech
 Sony  Shares Plunge After Earnings Warning;  Sony 's Share Price Fell Nearly 10% in Tokyo Morning Trading
<Date:>17 September 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XSony Corp.'s share price plunged on Thursday after the company's said that it would post a loss of more than $2 billion in the current fiscal year and stop paying dividends.
The company's stock fell more than 10% at one point in the morning session on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, dropping as low as ?1,844. Its shares ended down 8.6% at ?1,940.
The Japanese electronics giant announced after the market closed on Wednesday that it would take an impairment charge of ?180 billion connected to smartphones in the second quarter and acknowledged it wouldn't be a major player in the devices, which had been one of the company's last hopes for turning around its electronics arm.
As a result of the charge, Sony said it expected to post a net loss of ?230 billion in the fiscal year ending in March, almost five times what it forecast four months ago.
"The company had mentioned the possibility of impairment losses when it announced its April-June results, but its decision to book the losses at the top of the expected range is somewhat negative," said Yu Okazaki, an analyst at Nomura Securities.
Also hurting Sony shares on Thursday was the company's decision not to pay a dividend in the current fiscal year for the first time since the company's stock was listed in 1958.
The announcement was an "extremely negative surprise," said Yasuo Nakane, a research analyst for Deutsche Securities Inc. It will "weigh on the share price" in the near term, he said.
JPMorgan Securities' analysts also point out the move to skip dividend payouts may be highlighting worse-than-expected financial conditions.
"It is well known that dividends are a long-term commitment and we think this signals that its internal operations may be worse than what the market thinks," they said in a research note.
Meanwhile, the cost of credit protection for Sony increased to 165 basis points on Thursday, up sharply from around 110 basis points on Tuesday. Some market participants expect Sony's credit default swap price to remain high for the next few months while major credit-rating firms review the company's credit rating.
On Wednesday, Japan Credit Rating Agency said it placed Sony's credit rating under negative watch. Fitch Ratings said the write-down came as "no surprise" and wasn't likely to affect its rating.
Moody's has already assigned a junk rating to Sony's bonds, while Standard & Poor's on Thursday said it placed Sony's BBB- rating on credit monitor with negative implications.
Looking forward, analysts expect the company to need more structural changes.
"We think the shape, scale and organizational structure of the HQ and sales company should be revised from scratch based on a downsizing of its core businesses," Deutsche's Mr. Nakane said, adding that the company needs a slim business structure even if it incurs huge additional costs.
JPMorgan also warns specifically about the competitive smartphone business.
"Despite a write-down in the mobile communication segment, we do not rule out potential downside risk to its smartphone operations given commoditized high-end smartphones and intensifying competition in the mid-end segment," the brokerage's analysts said.
Corrections & Amplifications
Standard & Poor's has a BBB- rating credit rating for Sony. An earlier version of this article said it was a junk grade.
