<title:>Business
Discovery International Business Again Drives Growth; Media Company Trims Revenue Forecast After Quarterly Results Miss Expectations
<Date:>4 November 2014
<Content:>
Strong international growth drove Discovery Communications Inc.¡¦s profits 10% higher in the third quarter, even as weak TV ratings and ad sales at its domestic channels contributed to a decision to cut revenue guidance for the year.
The cable channel owner, whose properties include Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet, has been aggressively expanding overseas in recent years. Its international operations recently became a bigger revenue driver than its U.S. business.
That trend continued in the most recent quarter. The company reported a 14% rise in revenue to $1.57 billion, as a 32% rise in international networks offset a 1% decline in domestic networks. In terms of profitability, the international networks showed a 25% rise in operating income before depreciation and amortization, while domestic networks were flat on that measure.
The company primarily blamed the domestic revenue decline on a difficult comparison with last year, when digital licensing revenue was robust. It also acknowledged that ratings were a problem at its networks. Among the three biggest channels that account for about 70% of the company¡¦s revenue, ratings are down for the season at TLC and Animal Planet, and have only recently begun to rebound after a tough summer at the flagship Discovery Channel.
The company¡¦s stock fell 6.6% in Tuesday Nasdaq trading to $33.31.
¡§Improving our ratings is a top priority here in the U.S.,¡¨ Discovery Communications CEO David Zaslav said, noting that the company had recently hired former longtime Disney executive Rich Ross as president of the Discovery Channel.
The company is also facing a soft market for last-minute advertising sales, known as the ¡§scatter¡¨ market, particularly in the last month, Mr. Zaslav said. ¡§There¡¦s no question that in the last month, things have slowed,¡¨ he said of advertising sales. ¡§Our sense is it¡¦s a little more cautiousness about how to deploy capital.¡¨
In part for this reason, as well as negative foreign-currency effects and the impact of a coming ban on pay-TV advertising in Russia, the company lowered its revenue outlook for the year, saying it now expects to post revenue of $6.3 billion to $6.35 billion, compared with its previous estimate of $6.45 billion to $6.525 billion.
In July, Russia passed a law banning ads on pay-TV channels, effective Jan. 1. Discovery Communications, which has been in Russia for a long time with channels such as Discovery, Science and Animal Planet, says the rule change forced it to cut its revenue outlook by about $20 million. Executives emphasized that Russia brings in less than 2% of the company¡¦s global revenue.
Mr. Zaslav said that a further tightening of Russian pay-TV rules expected at the end of 2016, which would force a reduction of non-Russian-owned media to under 20%, ¡§probably will happen,¡¨ though the company will be ¡§optimistic if we can get a workaround.¡¨
Back home, Discovery said it signed a deal with Sony Corp. to be part of the online video-streaming service it plans to launch by year¡¦s end, becoming the second major media company after Viacom Inc. to do so. A Sony spokesman confirmed the deal, saying that it would share more details including which channels and how many channels at a later date.
Meanwhile, Mr. Zaslav continued to raise concerns about Comcast¡¦s proposed merger with Time Warner Cable, and that one distributor controlling so much of the buying power for cable networks could cause ¡§a retraction of investment in content.¡¨
Overall, profit for the quarter rose to $280 million, or 41 cents a share, from $255 million, or 35 cents a share, a year earlier.
