<title:>Tech
Lenovo¡¦s Quarterly Profit Jumps 19%; Growth in Europe Helps the PC Maker Shrug Off Declining Revenue in China
<Date:>5 November 2014
<Content:>
HONG KONG¡XLenovo Group Ltd. said Thursday its net profit for the quarter through September rose 19% thanks to growing sales of both personal computers and smartphones.
The world¡¦s largest PC maker by shipments said net profit rose to $262 million from $220 million a year earlier, largely in line with analysts¡¦ expectations. Revenue, however, came in below analysts¡¦ projections, rising 7% to $10.48 billion from $9.77 billion.
Lenovo said revenue in China, its biggest market, decreased 2% in the quarter from a year earlier. But revenue in Europe rose 33%, making up for the slowdown in China.
The company¡¦s smartphone shipments rose 38% from a year earlier. But revenue from its mobile devices division, which also includes tablets, fell 6%.
Lenovo Chief Executive Yang Yuanqing said the decline in mobile device revenue, despite shipment growth, was partly because many of the phones shipped near the end of the quarter hadn¡¦t yet contributed to revenue.
Lenovo has a challenge integrating two businesses it bought recently. A week ago, the company said it completed its $2.91 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility from Google Inc., while earlier in October it closed a $2.1 billion deal to buy International Business Machines Corp.¡¦s low-end server business.
Analysts say Lenovo¡¦s earnings may be hurt in the coming quarters by costs associated with the integration of the two businesses. Mr. Yang Yuanqing has also warned that the acquisitions will likely weigh on the company¡¦s bottom line in the near term. Mr. Yang has said he aims to turn loss-making Motorola profitable within six quarters of completing the deal.
Lenovo, which was founded in China, bought IBM¡¦s PC business in 2005. The company, now based in both China and the U.S., overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. to become the world¡¦s No. 1 PC maker by shipments last year. As the global PC market has become saturated, Lenovo is seeking new sources of growth by expanding its smartphone and server businesses.
Separately, Lenovo said Thursday that it has appointed Yahoo Inc. co-founder Jerry Yang as an independent board director. Of Lenovo¡¦s 11-member board, eight are independent directors, including former Sony Corp. Chief Executive Nobuyuki Idei and Tudor Brown, a co-founder of U.K. chip designer ARM Holdings PLC. 
