<title:>Opinion
Musical Trips, Temporal & Geographic
<Date:>29 September 2014
<Content:>
Even though Herb Alpert and Sergio Mendes have both been steadily making music for well over 50 years, the music of those two tightly interconnected instrumentalist-producer-maestros, who both currently have new releases out, is extricably associated with the mid-to-late 1960s.
Apart from the way their careers and personal lives have been linked¡XLani Hall, most famously a singer in Mr. Mendes's ensemble, who has been Mrs. Alpert since 1973¡Xthe two have a lot in common: They're both among the final artists who achieved blockbuster hits as interpreters of songs composed by others (prior to the takeover by singer-songwriters at the start of the 1970s). And, perhaps not coincidentally, they're also among the few hitmakers of the rock 'n' roll era whose appeal wasn't specific to any one generation. During The Great Society years, kids were buying the Rolling Stones and The Supremes, while their parents bought Dean Martin and Perry Como. But everybody bought Sergio Mendes's Brasil '66 and Herb Alpert's Tijuana Brass.
Now Mr. Alpert's "In the Mood" (Shout! Factory) and Mr. Mendes's "Magic" (Sony) show the two auteurs at their best and, on different tracks, at their most populist¡Xwhich is not always the same thing. "In the Mood" doesn't include the famous swing-era song that inspired the album's title, but it does begin with another landmark hit for the Glenn Miller Orchestra, "Chattanooga Choo Choo." The first sounds we hear on the album are electronically generated beats, which may cause you to assume for a minute that Mr. Alpert has changed the name of his ensemble to the Tijuana Techno. But the famous Harry Warren melody quickly arrives in the form of Mr. Alpert's signature brass sound, and the articulation of said trumpets, though acoustic, suggests that they've been fed into a sampler and played back on a keyboard.
In a recent appearance at the Cafe Carlyle, Mr. Alpert told audiences that his first inspiration as a trumpeter was Ziggy Elman (best known for his work with Benny Goodman and Tommy Dorsey), a likely role model for an aspiring Jewish trumpeter who grew up during the big band era. But the use of a shuffle-style backbeat on such swing anthems as "Choo Choo," "Begin the Beguine" and "Blue Moon" points to Jonah Jones, who made a series of pop trumpet albums in the late 1950s that set familiar standards to a danceable shuffle beat in a way that could be considered a precedent for the Tijuana Brass a decade later.
Even more than Mr. Alpert's own playing, it was the use of well-crafted arrangements that made the Tijuana Brass such a success 50 years ago, and while he also scored as a vocalist with "This Guy's in Love With You," he's a considerably better singer on his horn, as he shows on "When Sunny Gets Blue," the Nat King Cole-associated standard on the new album. There's no fancy chart here, just Mr. Alpert playing Marvin Fisher's melody with much obvious love, delineating it deliberately and meaningfully. It's the most exposed and vulnerable Mr. Alpert has ever sounded on record.
Mr. Mendes's "Magic" proves that his music has been, since his first album in the early '60s, a kind of musical feijoada, a Brazilian stew, in which the basic ingredient, the soup stock as it were, is Mr. Mendes's familiar samba beat. Over this basic beat he's consistently added a mix of fresh ingredients that fit the era, like jazz solos and well-known pop hits (Paul Simon, the Beatles) in the 1960s, a heavier funk beat in the '70s and, now on one track on the current album ("My My My My Love," featuring Cody Wise and produced by rap star will.i.am), autotune-adjusted synthesized vocals in the 21st-century style. John Legend's guest shot on "Don't Say Goodbye" shows how perfect the Mendes sound is for backing up a wide range of celebrity singers, from Eartha Kitt and Tom Jones in the early years of the Brasil bands to, more recently, the hip-hop stars the Black Eyed Peas.
The tracks with Brazilian guests, however, fall more into line with Mr. Mendes's classic early ensembles, and are overall the album's most successful.
Baritone Seu Jorge evokes both romance and a party atmosphere, whether singing or speaking, on "Sou Eu," a South American standard by composer Moacir Santos, whom Wynton Marsalis has dubbed "The Duke Ellington of Brazil." The beats on Milton Nascimento's "Olha a Rua" (with a vocal by the composer) and "One Nation," co-written by Mr. Mendes and guest vocalist Carlinhos Brown, both split the difference between dancing and parading down the street during Carnival. Deep-voiced Ana Carolina delivers the most sensual vocal of the set on "Atlantica"; Mika Mutti follows her with beautifully vocalized harmonica lines that turn the number into a virtual love duet, and then, when Mr. Mendes begins singing with the two of them, it becomes a m?nage ? trois. "Meu Rio," with a vocal by Maria Gadu, adds strings to the mix in the form of a solo cello and percussion in the form of handclaps, which suggests flamenco.
Mr. Mendes's voyage is mainly geographic, covering South and North America, the old world and the new; Mr. Alpert's is temporal, as he conjoins the big band era with both the Brill Building period ("All I Have to Do Is Dream," "Spanish Harlem" from the early 1960s) and the contemporary era. If the vitality of the best tracks on both of these albums is any indication, both of these musical journeys are far from complete.
Mr. Friedwald writes the weekly Jazz Scene column for the Journal. 
