<title:>New York
A Hamster¡¦s Take on His Bratty Owner; Simon Rich on Ripping Off Heroes, Bombing a ¡¥30 Rock¡¦ Audition and His Inability to Learn From Success
<Date:>3 November 2014
<Content:>
¡§Spoiled Brats,¡¨ a new collection of short stories by Simon Rich, begins with a tale narrated by a class hamster about the casual sadism of a school kid named Simon Rich. In another story, a hard-working immigrant emerges from a pickle vat after spending a century preserved in brine, only to encounter his self-indulged great-great grandson, also named Simon Rich.
The 30-year-old comedy writer doesn¡¦t just take aim at himself in this book, his sixth, but at mothers who think their little monsters are gifted and fathers who¡¦d rather die than get overtaken by their sons. (Literally¡Xthat mother¡¦s child has horns, and that father asks his son to club him to death after losing at Scrabble.)
Mr. Rich found success early, nabbing a two-book deal before graduating from Harvard. Just out of college, he became one of the youngest writers in the history of ¡§Saturday Night Live,¡¨ where he worked from 2007 to 2011.
He has been spending this fall in Toronto shooting ¡§Man Seeking Woman,¡¨ starring Jay Baruchel, set to premiere on FXX next year. Mr. Rich is a writer on the cable series, which is based on his 2013 short-story collection, ¡§The Last Girlfriend on Earth.¡¨ And he just finished the first draft of the screenplay based on the story of the pickled immigrant at the center of ¡§Spoiled Brats¡¨; Sony Pictures acquired the movie rights to the piece, ¡§Sell Out,¡¨ after it appeared in the New Yorker.
Mr. Rich, whose father is former New York Times writer Frank Rich, lives in Brooklyn with his wife and fellow writer, Kathleen Hale. He spoke with the Journal about ripping off his heroes, his inability to learn from success, and the time he bombed an audition for a character based on himself. An edited transcript follows.
You¡¦ve chosen some unusual narrators in your writing.
In my last book, I wanted to write a story about all the fear and anxiety that goes into losing one¡¦s virginity, and so I wrote it from the perspective of a condom in a teenage boy¡¦s wallet as he waited and waited to get used. That¡¦s always been my favorite way to tell a story, to start with a subject that¡¦s universal and hopefully emotionally relatable, and come at it from a brand new angle.
How did it occur to you to write a story from a hamster¡¦s point of view?
That¡¦s a very self-loathing, autobiographical story. It¡¦s about my own experiences being a spoiled, obnoxious 8-year-old boy, and I thought the funniest angle and the highest-stakes angle to tell that story from would be from the perspective of a creature I was actively hurting.
Have you given much thought to where your humor comes from?
The clich? is that all comedy writers were picked on and miserable and had miserable childhoods and are compensating for some kind of childhood trauma, but I don¡¦t think that¡¦s always true.
I know a lot of extremely funny writers who have incredibly boring upbringings. I also know a lot of people who have had horrible childhoods who are some of the most miserable, unfunny people you¡¦ve ever met.
For me, I think it just comes from loving jokes. The reason I got into this career is just because I wanted to rip off my heroes. I grew up obsessing over ¡§The Simpsons¡¨ and reading Mad magazine and reading Philip Roth and P.G. Wodehouse and Evelyn Waugh and Joe Heller and reading Matt Groening comic books and just thinking, man, wouldn¡¦t it be great to just live in this world all the time?
How did you handle it at ¡§SNL¡¨ when a piece you¡¦d written bombed?
I found personally that as a writer¡Xand this is true of story writing and novel writing and screenplay writing and sketch writing¡Xit¡¦s almost impossible for me to reverse-engineer any of my successes. I can¡¦t sit down and say, ¡§Oh, this short story really worked, I¡¦m going to write one like that.¡¨ I¡¦m not really ever able to learn from my successes, but I¡¦ve always been able to learn from my failures.
So when you were writing for that show, you could figure out what went wrong right away?
Oh yeah, because sometimes the audience will go, ¡§Oooh.¡¨ Or they¡¦ll sigh or they¡¦ll chuckle instead of laugh, or physically you look over and see them get confused or lose focus. You can tell. I often wish when I write a book that I could watch people¡¦s eyes as they¡¦re scrolling through the page.
What¡¦s it like to watch a stranger read one of your New Yorker stories on the subway?
I stare at them the whole time. If they make it through the end of the article, then I¡¦ll feel like I¡¦ve succeeded, and if they flip to another page, I¡¦m devastated.
Have you ever wanted to act in one of your comedies?
I always tell the story, to explain how bad of an actor I am, which is when I was writing for ¡§SNL,¡¨ some friends of mine who wrote for ¡§30 Rock¡¨ based a character on me. They called me downstairs to audition, and I did such a bad job I wasn¡¦t even called back for the role.
What was the role?
It was Tina Fey¡¦s agent, who I think was named Simon in the draft.
Did you perform in any ¡§SNL¡¨ sketches?
As a sight gag. You can usually find me in some embarrassing, dehumanizing role. I was a white Harlem Globetrotter. I was an emaciated Incredible Hulk. More of a prop than an actor.
