<title:>Europe
What's News¡X
<Date:>17 September 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Sony said it expects to post an annual loss of $2.15 billion and acknowledged that it won't be a major competitor in the smartphone business.
Inditex's profit and sales were pressured in the first half as the parent company of the Zara retail chain suffered political and economic turmoil in some of its growth markets.
Credit Suisse is under fire from U.S. regulators over concerns the bank isn't heeding warnings to stop making loans regulators see as risky.
Sky Deutschland has advised minority shareholders to reject a takeover offer by British Sky Broadcasting, saying the bid doesn't reflect the company's long-term potential.
Jazztel investor Alken said it won't sell shares to Orange unless the French telecommunications company sweetens its $4.32 billion offer for the Spanish broadband provider.
The price of polished diamonds declined for the sixth consecutive month in August, driven by sluggish sales, and larger diamonds have been leading the downturn.
Roche won't pursue transformational deals in the pharmaceutical sector, the Swiss drug maker's chief executive said in an interview.
World-Wide
Russia praised a Ukrainian law granting new self-governance powers to separatist-held areas of Ukraine, a measure some lawmakers in Kiev blasted as a giveaway to Moscow.
Obama insisted he won't authorize a U.S. ground war against Islamic State, as he sought to contain fallout from a top commander's assertion to recommend U.S. ground troops if the current strategy falls short.
Syrian warplanes bombarded rebel-held areas near Damascus and in the center and north of the country, the latest round of attacks in an intensified campaign of airstrikes that began a week ago.
The World Bank's president said West African nations hit by the Ebola epidemic will face an economic crisis unless global authorities move faster to marshal resources needed to contain the outbreak.
A Bangladeshi court commuted the death sentence of a senior opposition politician convicted of war crimes to life in prison, sparking clashes in the capital.
The artificial sweeteners in diet soda, yogurt and other foods consumed by millions can raise the blood sugar level instead of reducing it, according to experiments done in mice and people. 
