<title:>Asia
Taiwan¡¦s Export Growth Slips; Demand for Electronic Components Partially Offset by Plunge in Smartphone, Petrochemical Sales.
<Date:>7 October 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XTaiwan¡¦s export growth slipped in September, as strong demand for electronic components ahead of the year-end holiday season were partially offset by a plunge in smartphone and petrochemical sales.
Taiwan shipped $26.43 billion of goods abroad last month, the Ministry of Finance said Tuesday. It was a 4.7% increase from the same month last year but a 5.9% decline from August.
Some economists said export growth might have peaked in August, a month before Apple Inc.¡¦s official launch of its new iPhones. The Cupertino, California-based company buys parts including microprocessors and camera lenses from Taiwan. But some others said Taiwanese overseas sales in the fourth quarter will likely continue to grow at high single-digit rates, citing strong follow-on orders for the new iPhones and improving demand among U.S. consumers.
Driven by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.¡¦s sales of computing chips to Apple, exports of semiconductors rose a strong 15% last month from a year earlier, the ministry said. Total overseas sales of electronic goods, which include semiconductors, totaled $8.89 billion in September. It was slightly less than August¡¦s $9.23 billion, which was a record high.
Component makers from Taiwan are playing a central role in the global electronics supply chain, selling components to Apple and other tech behemoths such as Sony and Microsoft.
However, exports of Taiwanese-made smartphones dived 39% last month. Sales of petrochemicals also dropped 9.2%. The government said falling energy prices led some factories to delay stocking up inventories.
Although Thanksgiving and Christmas are months away, some U.S. retailers have begun offering discounts to lure consumers. Taiwan¡¦s exports to the U.S., comprising mostly electronics, gained 8.8% last month, sharply higher than a 4.9% rise in August.
However, exports to Europe added only 1.2%, compared with a 13.5% rise in August. Exports to China also slowed as the world¡¦s second-largest economy still struggled to regain its growth momentum. Shipments to China and Hong Kong, Taiwan¡¦s biggest export markets, were up 3.6% in September, down from a 8.7% rise in August.
Overall exports have grown 3.5% so far this year, exceeding the government¡¦s target of a 3.21% rise for the entire year¡Xbut still below the double-digit percentage expansion often seen in the 1990s and early 2000s.
Imports in September rose 0.2% to US$22.93 billion, much slower than August¡¦s 14.1% rise. The trade surplus decreased to $3.50 billion from $4.11 billion a month earlier.
