<title:>Life and Style
Eat in the Lounge, Work in the Air; Skipping Meals on Flights Makes This Executive More Productive
<Date:>8 October 2014
<Content:>
Glen Brasington is vice president of marketing at Pernod Ricard Asia, the regional unit of the French distiller. The Hong Kong-based Australian received valuable training as a bartender during his university days. ¡§You learn to read people very quickly,¡¨ he says. He draws on that skill as he travels around Asia promoting high-end spirits and liquor.
Mr. Brasington spoke with the Journal about replacing a keyboard after it met with a cup of tea, skipping meals on flights, and how to remove the wrinkles in Hong Kong-tailored shirts.
How often are you on the road?
Usually from June onwards is when I spend a lot of time going to our markets. In a year, I could easily be traveling for about 130 days. There are 16 Pernod affiliates whom I visit regularly, including Dubai and the Gulf states, through to Japan and down to Indonesia. I go to France, of course, where our head office is located. Now, I¡¦m more frequently in Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam, which need a little bit more support with the projects that we¡¦re running there.
Which airline do you fly the most?
Our company has corporate deals with Cathay Pacific and Air France. Generally, the timing of [Cathay] flights work better for me, especially around Asia, so that¡¦s what I tend to take. We also do a lot of business with Korean Air. An A380 of theirs even has an Absolut [one of Pernod¡¦s brands] bar.
Memorable in-flight service?
On a Korean Air flight to Seoul, an air stewardess spilled a cup of tea on my laptop, ruining three hours¡¦ worth of work. It was an accident and she was incredibly apologetic. Of course, I was furious¡Xnot with her¡Xbut the fact that I had no means of resolving the problem. And to think I had a full-day meeting the next day and the day after.
When I hopped off the flight, the stewardess told me she had called the Sony service center and made an appointment for me. An hour later, she called again, saying that she and her boss, the purser, would personally come for me at my hotel the next morning. They showed up as promised [and] drove me to the repair shop, where they replaced my keyboard. They paid for it. It¡¦s a story I¡¦ve told about 50 times because that was certainly service over and beyond expectation.
Favorite hotel?
I like the design style of the Andaz hotel in Shanghai. It¡¦s really modern and minimal, and the service isn¡¦t intrusive. I get annoyed, arriving at 1 a.m., and the first thing the butler wants to do is take you on a tour of the room. Another plus for Andaz is that it¡¦s directly opposite our office. Convenient location, design and efficiency are what make me book a hotel consistently.
How important are a hotel room¡¦s amenities?
I don¡¦t spend that much time in my room to be honest. The nature of the business calls for a lot of meetings at our offices and socializing, which in Pernod we call a ¡§conviviality moment.¡¨ That means dinner with my colleagues in the city I¡¦m visiting at a restaurant or hotel that stocks our products. Then the group moves on to bars that also carry our products, though it¡¦s not really to drink but more to understand the environment we operate in.
What do you do most of while flying: work, sleep or eat?
I rarely eat on flights. Meals just take too long to lay out and clean up, and this disturbs my work flow. Since I tend to do late afternoon flights, I¡¦ll try to eat in the lounge before departure.
Favorite airport lounge?
The Wing of [Cathay], of course. I¡¦m a fan of its beef cheeks, which is one of five dishes on the a la carte menu, paired with our products like Martell in a special yearlong promotion.
Do you spend time in airports?
Yes, because it¡¦s where I can shop for toiletries and get a haircut or a massage¡Xthings I can never find time to do in my free time. I¡¦m always at Zara at Hong Kong¡¦s airport. In fact, retailers like Uniqlo and H&M should be more interested in opening up there to take advantage of travelers who have more time and spending money.
Fitness regimen while traveling?
I have the best intentions but don¡¦t always have the time to work out. I still bring a skipping rope and goggles anyway.
Favorite travel app?
Skyscanner. It provides a comprehensive list of flights available on a preferred day, their routings, as well as competitive prices.
Travel advice?
If you have your shirts tailored as I do in Hong Kong, specifically ask for easy press material. Hang them up in the bathroom and the steam pretty much gets [out] the wrinkles. I never use the iron in hotels¡Xthey¡¦re usually covered in gunk.
Edited from an interview by Margie T. Logarta
