<title:>UPDATE 1-Japan Display cuts forecast as sales of high-end Chinese smartphones disappoint
<Date:>15 October 2014
<Content:>
(Adds share price, details on Apple business and background)
By Sophie Knight and Reiji Murai
TOKYO, Oct 15 (Reuters) - Smartphone and tablet panel maker Japan Display Inc slashed its full-year earnings forecast on Wednesday to a 10 billion yen ($93 million) net loss, citing lower-than-expected sales of high-end panels to Chinese handset makers.
Japan Display, which had previously estimated it would post a net profit of 26.8 billion yen, said Chinese smartphone makers had not adopted full high-definition displays as rapidly as it had expected, while delayed shipments to a large customer had depressed sales in the six months to Sept. 31.
Sources told Reuters in August that Apple Inc suppliers including Japan Display had suffered a setback due to a design glitch with the panel for the recently released iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, halting some production assembly operations.
The forecast cut is the latest bad news for Japan Display, whose share price scraped a new all-time low on Wednesday before the announcement. An earlier profit warning and disappointing results both last year and for the first quarter have cast doubts over the viability of its high-end panel business.
Japan Display, the result of a merger between the display units of Sony Corp, Toshiba Corp and Hitachi Ltd, troubled investors by its reliance on a tablet market so sluggish that analysts say even Apple may struggle to turn it around if it announces new iPads as rumoured on Thursday.
A source close to Japan Display said the company's full-year forecast had also taken a hit after orders from a Japanese handset maker had come in lower than expected, while prices for mid-end panels for the Chinese market had sagged.
Japan Display said it would not pay a dividend for the second quarter ended September, which it had not previously set, and also cut its operating profit forecast for the year to March 31 to 6.5 billion yen from a previous forecast of 40 billion yen.
In a separate filing, the Japanese company said it would close its Fukaya plant in Saitama prefecture near Tokyo, resulting in an extraordinary loss of around 7 billion yen in the second half of the financial year. It said it would move staff from the plant to other manufacturing facilities.
Japan Display's share price ended flat on Wednesday at 439 yen after hitting a low of 431 yen, a lifetime low and 52.1 percent below the offering price of 900 yen at its initial public offering in March. ($1=107.4100 Japanese yen) (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Ryan Woo) 
Released: 2014-10-15T09:47:39.000Z
