<title:>Tech
Activision¡¦s Revenue Jumps 78% on ¡¥Destiny,¡¦ Mobile Sales; Videogame Maker¡¦s Holiday Outlook, However, Falls Below Analyst Expectations
<Date:>4 November 2014
<Content:>
Activision Blizzard Inc. reported a better-than-expected revenue increase of 78% in the third quarter, boosted by the new sci-fi shooter game ¡§Destiny¡¨ and continued growth in its mobile business.
Shares of the videogame maker, up more than 18% over the past 12 months, rose 3.6% in after-hours trading, despite issuing a fourth-quarter forecast that fell short of expectations.
The Santa Monica, Calif., company guided for earnings of 86 cents a share on revenue of $2.2 billion in the December quarter, compared with the Wall Street consensus of 94 cents a share on $2.34 billion in net revenue, according to Thomson Reuters.
New versions of popular titles ¡§Skylanders,¡¨ ¡§Call of Duty¡¨ and ¡§World of Warcraft¡¨ are expected this quarter. Ahead of the release, Activision reported a quarterly increase in ¡§World of Warcraft¡¨ subscribers.
Also seen helping holiday results is continued sales of ¡§Destiny,¡¨ which was released in September and represents the latest project by Bungie, the developer behind the popular ¡§Halo¡¨ series.
Game developers like Activision have benefited from the latest generation of videogame consoles, Sony Corp.¡¦s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Corp.¡¦s Xbox One, both released last year. In the latest period, Activision reported next-gen consoles accounted for $468 million, or 40% of net revenue.
Activision, which like its peers once relied on sales of videogames stored on discs, has been shifting to digital downloads and customizing game offerings to specific markets. For example, Chief Executive Bobby Kotick said the company has a special version of ¡§Call of Duty Online¡¨ for China.
For the most recently completed period, digital downloads accounted for 67% of total revenue, up from 59% a year earlier.
Overall, Activision reported a loss of $23 million, or three cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $56 million, or five cents a share. Excluding changes in deferred revenue and other items, Activision¡¦s per-share earnings rose to 23 cents from eight cents a year earlier.
Gaming companies spread out revenue for games with online components over the life of the subscription instead of at the time of sale.
Net revenue, adjusting for such deferred revenue and other nonrecurring items, was $1.17 billion. Mobile-related revenue rose 27% to $505 million.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected a profit of 13 cents a share on $1.01 billion revenue.
