<title:>Business
Paramount Pictures, Movie Investors in Mean Fight; As ¡¥Slate Deals¡¦ Make a Comeback, Litigation Over Old Contract Shows Pitfalls
<Date:>26 October 2014
<Content:>
It has been 10 years since the comedy ¡§Mean Girls¡¨ and a remake of ¡§The Manchurian Candidate¡¨ starring Denzel Washington played in theaters. But in a New York courtroom last week, they took center stage.
The films were among a group of 25 releases from Paramount Pictures that have been the subject of a nasty court fight, including accusations of dishonesty and fraud. Four investors who were part of a $231 million deal to co-finance the movies¡Xa ¡§slate deal¡¨ in Hollywood parlance¡Xare suing to get back part of their $40.1 million investment, all of which was lost in the deal.
¡§This language is a lie,¡¨ said a lawyer for the plaintiffs in opening arguments Tuesday, pointing to a document used by Paramount to sell the deal.
¡§Plaintiffs chose this business,¡¨ countered an attorney for the studio, which is owned by Viacom Inc. ¡§It¡¦s an unpredictable business.¡¨
Slate deals, which were common in Hollywood about 10 years ago and have recently made a comeback, have generated a lot of lawsuits and behind-the-scenes fights¡Xthough most have been resolved without spilling into the glare of open court.
Paramount has defended itself in four such lawsuits in recent years, more than any other major studio. Two of Paramount¡¦s cases were settled out of court, and the studio prevailed in a third case that went to trial and was upheld on appeal. The fourth is the one currently in court.
Slate financing deals at Sony Corp.¡¦s Sony Pictures and Comcast Corp.¡¦s Universal Pictures¡¦ also resulted in separate lawsuits. The case involving the Sony deal is ongoing, though the studio isn¡¦t a party.
A decade ago, hedge funds and other big investors flocked to Hollywood, convinced that by backing not just one but a slate of several dozen films at a major studio they could minimize the risk inherent in the movie business. The hits would offset the flops, or so the thinking went. And with DVD sales booming at the time, the slate financing strategy looked like a safe way to buy a little showbiz glamour.
Most of the deals, however, enjoyed anything but Hollywood endings. DVD sales stopped growing, risky big-budget tentpoles became more common, and the often opaque complexities of film finance¡Xwith fees for studios and talent taken off the top¡Xand revenue that arrives slowly from a wide variety of sources, resulted in lower profits than some investors had expected. Some quietly left with lighter wallets, but others fought the studios.
¡§When it comes to film financing, there¡¦s always money in an audit,¡¨ said Clark Hallren, a consultant who was previously a managing director at J.P. Morgan¡¦s entertainment industries group. ¡§The question is whether the additional money you¡¦ll find is greater than the cost of litigation.¡¨
Some cases were settled out of the public eye. After hedge fund Elliott Management initiated an audit at Universal over a money-losing slate deal, the two sides agreed last year that the studio would buy back Elliott¡¦s interest in some of its films, according to people involved in the negotiation.
Slate deals petered out in the wake of the financial crisis of late 2008 and 2009, but have recently returned. Every major studio except Walt Disney Co., which eschews such partnerships, has in the past two years signed or renewed at least one major co-financing arrangement.
The people behind some of those agreements say they learned lessons from deals gone bad in the 2000s and are now taking on less debt and being more selective about the management teams with which they work or films they back.
But such claims have been made in decades past as studios have gone through one wave of financiers after another.
¡§The history of these deals is littered with the remains of investors who thought they understood the transaction simply because they succeeded at other businesses,¡¨ said film financier David Molner, who was a plaintiff in one of the lawsuits against Paramount that was settled.
In the case being argued in New York, Allianz Risk Transfer AG, a unit of German insurance giant Allianz, and three co-plaintiffs are seeking to recover more than $16 million from their original investment, as well as punitive damages. In a suit filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan they accused the studio of fraud and unjust enrichment.
The plaintiffs claim that just as they made their deal with Paramount, the studio cut back on its previous practice of selling most foreign rights on its films in advance¡Xa strategy that offsets risk, but also limits potential upside. Many movies in the slate were box-office duds, and the losses were higher than they would have been if foreign rights had been sold in advance, as the plaintiffs allege they were led to expect.
Paramount has denied the plaintiffs¡¦ allegations and said it didn¡¦t promise to pursue any particular amount of ¡§foreign pre-sales.¡¨
Among Paramount¡¦s earlier lawsuits, the most unusual involved the actor Tommy Lee Jones, a star of the 2007 Oscar- winning movie ¡§No Country for Old Men,¡¨ whose contract entitled him to a bonus if the film hit a certain box-office gross.
A ¡§drafting error¡¨ in the agreement more than tripled the amount the actor was entitled to receive, to $17.5 million from just under $5 million, according to an appeals-court decision on a 2011 lawsuit filed by the Marathon Funding LLC investors group. An attorney for Mr. Jones said an arbitration judge found the contract was legitimate and that his client ultimately received $16 million.
Marathon, which helped finance ¡§No Country¡¨ and 13 other Paramount films in a deal struck in late 2006, accused the studio of dipping into the investment fund for about $2 million to help cover the expense. A California appeals court found in 2013 that Paramount hadn¡¦t cheated Marathon by using money from the fund.
¡§No matter how smart an investor you are, anyone can be taken,¡¨ said Mr. Hallren. ¡§And no one¡¦s better at doing that than Hollywood.¡¨
Colleen Wilson contributed to this article.
