<title:>Asia
What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Investors in emerging markets are cooling on stocks of companies that sell essential goods like food and drinks after a dizzying rally that has left those shares looking expensive.
Total named refining and chemicals head Patrick Pouyann? as CEO of the oil company, after the death of Christophe de Margerie in a plane crash in Moscow earlier in the week.
Sony is considering slashing its smartphone sales target again, as the business struggles amid fierce competition, especially in emerging markets.
Yahoo¡¦s CEO Mayer defended her company¡¦s turnaround strategy amid a challenge from activist investor Starboard Value.
McDonald¡¦s is struggling to revive its fortunes in China, from a food-safety scandal to stiff competition in the fast-food industry.
Boeing said its quarterly profit rose but indicated costs for its 787 Dreamliner program aren¡¦t coming down as quickly as hoped.
Hedge fund Third Point has taken a stake in Amgen and wants to explore splitting the biotechnology company in two.
The chairman of Chinese gold producer Shandong Zhaojin said the company is in talks to acquire gold-mining assets in North America and Australia.
Korea Investment Corp., South Korea¡¦s $72 billion sovereign-wealth fund, found out the hard way that cutting out the middleman isn¡¦t always easy.
After snapping up luxury condos and commercial properties in New York and Los Angeles, Asian investors are setting their sights on U.S. apartment buildings.
World-Wide
A U.S. Marine who police suspect killed a transgender Filipino was transferred from a U.S. warship to a detention facility at Philippine military headquarters, defusing tension over jurisdiction that threatened to upset increasingly close military relations between the countries.
Thousands of antigovernment demonstrators left Islamabad, ending a 69-day sit-in led by Muslim cleric Tahir ul Qadri and easing pressure on embattled Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. and easing pressure on Prime Minister Sharif.
As Hong Kong lumbers through its fourth week of pro-democracy protests, the variety of coverage in the local media has laid bare differences in visions for the city.
The American man freed by North Korea after several months in detention returned to Ohio.
Died: Ben Bradlee, 93, editor who steered the Washington Post¡¦s coverage of the Watergate scandal that led to the resignation of U.S. President Richard Nixon.
