<title:>Reuters Entertainment News Summary
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs.
Jennifer Lawrence says photo hacking is sex crime: magazine
Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence, one of dozens of actresses, models and celebrities whose intimate images have been posted online, spoke about the photo hacking scandal for the first time on Tuesday, saying it is a crime and sexual violation. In an interview with Vanity Fair magazine, Lawrence, 24, said she was frightened after the photos were released last month and worried about the impact it would have on her career.
Green Day, Sting among nominees for Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Punk rock band Green Day, rockers Nine Inch Nails and singer Sting are among the 2015 nominees announced on Thursday for induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. They lead a diverse list that includes The Paul Butterfield Blues Band, the late singer Lou Reed, German electronic group Kraftwerk, Motown singers The Marvelettes, and The Smiths, who broke up many years ago.
Amal Alamuddin Clooney gets back to work in Greece
Human rights lawyer Amal Alamuddin Clooney, fresh from her marriage to Hollywood heart-throb George Clooney last month, is heading to Athens to advise the Greek government in its battle to repatriate the ancient Elgin Marbles statues from Britain. The Lebanese-born Alamuddin, who married Clooney in a star-studded ceremony in Venice, will meet Greece's Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and Culture Minister Konstantinos Tasoulas alongside her boss Geoffrey Robertson, their Doughty Street Chambers said on Thursday.
A Minute With: Hugh Grant on Hollywood, hacking and celebrity
Actor Hugh Grant, who became the poster boy for the charming British fop in romantic comedies such as "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill," is delighted not to be part of Hollywood anymore. Grant channels his feelings in his latest film, "The Rewrite," as Keith, a washed up screenwriter who moves to a small New York town to give a college course on the sometimes cynical and occasionally realistic perils of Hollywood. The film is out in UK theaters on Wednesday.
'Ghostbusters' to be remade with 'hilarious women': Feig
If there is something strange in the neighborhood, who are you going to call? 'Hilarious women,' quipped filmmaker Paul Feig. "Bridesmaids" filmmaker Feig said on Wednesday he is working on a new "Ghostbusters" film for Sony Pictures and co-writing the movie.
MOMA hails Henri Matisse with 'Cut-Outs' exhibition
Blue figures swim around walls, dancers prance in a circle and flowers sprout on a huge canvas in an exhibition of the cut-out works of French artist Henri Matisse that opens next week. The show, "Henri Matisse: the Cut-Outs," which runs from Oct. 12 through Feb. 8 at the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA), includes 100 works from private and public collections, drawings, textiles and stained glass from the final years of the renowned artist, who died in 1954 aged 84.
Study of slavery makes shortlist for Samuel Johnson book prize
A book that traces the history of slavery over four centuries is among six books shortlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction, one of the world's richest non-fiction awards. Greg Grandin's "The Empire of Necessity", a history of slavery from the early 16th century until the middle of the 19th century, was among the works that made the short list announced on Thursday.
China bans tainted stars from TV, movie screens
Stars who have used drugs, visited prostitutes or been involved in other law-breaking will not be allowed to appear on Chinese television, movie screens or other forms of broadcast, state media said on Thursday, following a series of scandals. The ban by the broadcast regulator, which includes radio and advertisements, is meant to "keep the industry healthy", the official China Daily reported.
'The Overnighters' shows dark side of North Dakota oil boom
Desperate for a fresh start, unemployed workers from all over the world have converged on North Dakota's burgeoning oil patch, seeking six-figure salaries and the rewards of living in the fastest-growing economy in the nation. But award-winning documentary "The Overnighters," opening in New York on Friday before expanding nationally, shows the bleak side of that American Dream and the complex efforts of one man to be a Good Samaritan.
Blake Shelton tops Billboard 200; Prince lands two albums in top 10
Country music artists Blake Shelton and Lady Antebellum raced to the top of the weekly U.S. Billboard 200 chart on Wednesday, while R&B veteran Prince scored two new debuts in the top 10. Shelton, who is also a judge on NBC's talent show "The Voice," topped the chart with "Bringing Back the Sunshine," which sold 101,000 copies in its first week, according to sales figures compiled by Nielsen SoundScan. 
Released: 2014-10-9T21:56:29.000Z
