<title:>Tech
Nintendo Logs Better-Than-Expected Net Profit; Japanese Game Maker Profits on Weaker Yen, Stronger Software Sales
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
OSAKA¡XNintendo Co. on Wednesday said a weak yen and sales of popular game titles boosted its quarterly performance and the company¡¦s hopes for a full-year profit¡Xeven as skepticism among industry watchers persists.
The Kyoto-based game maker reported net profit of ?24.22 billion ($224 million) in the three months ended September, well above analysts¡¦ expectations and a turnaround from an ?8 billion loss a year earlier.
President Satoru Iwata said Nintendo is poised to break a three-year streak of operating losses and is on track for a net profit of ?20 billion for its March-ending fiscal year, after a loss of ?46 billion in the preceding year. ¡§What we are seeing right now is good proof that our business still has a lot of growth potential,¡¨ Mr. Iwata said at an earnings conference.
The surprisingly strong results for its fiscal second quarter give Nintendo some breathing room, as Mr. Iwata tries to persuade investors that the company¡¦s strategy of sticking to game consoles is sound. Players have been shifting to smartphones, downloading games as free apps rather than buying consoles and packaged games of the sort that Nintendo thrived on during the heyday of its Super Mario Brothers franchise.
Nintendo, which has steadfastly resisted licensing its games for use on smartphones, gave no hint Wednesday that it might rethink its approach.
The company is scheduled to give a separate briefing on strategy Thursday.
For its latest quarter, Nintendo highlighted solid sales of ¡§Smash Brothers¡¨ and other games for its hand-held 3DS game console, which was developed in-house. Although 3DS sales were weaker in the quarter¡X1.27 million consoles compared with 2.49 million a year earlier, Mr. Iwata said he is confident the sales would pick up as popular titles, including new Pok?mon games, are released later this year.
The yen¡¦s weakness has been a boon, inflating the value, in yen terms, of Nintendo¡¦s sizable pool of assets held in dollars and euros. About 40% of Nintendo¡¦s revenue comes from North America, while the European region accounts for 30% and the Japanese market 25%.
Still, for Nintendo and its competitors, the current quarter and its year-end shopping season hold the key, and Mr. Iwata said the company is banking on its pending release of strong game titles.
Many analysts ahead of Nintendo¡¦s earnings announcement said the picture for the game maker remains grim and its earnings target is likely out of reach. Nintendo¡¦s latest home console, the Wii U, launched in November 2012, has sold 7.29 million units, compared with more than 10 million for Sony Corp.¡¦s PlayStation 4, which went on sale a year later.
In the recent quarter, Wii U sales more than doubled from a year earlier to 610,000 units. For the full year, Nintendo is aiming for 3.6 million Wii U sales, up from 2.7 million units, while keeping sales of the 3DS roughly flat at 12 million units. ¡§We believe our business is in line with our forecast, and the unit target isn¡¦t impossible to achieve,¡¨ Mr. Iwata said, stressing that analysts have been too pessimistic.
Many analysts say the company needs to tap into businesses such as smartphone applications and new markets like China to achieve sustainable growth.
¡§Console gaming is becoming increasingly niche compared with the mass-market app-based gaming that has exploded through social media and mobile devices like smartphones and tablets,¡¨ said Jon Copestake, retail analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, after the Nintendo announcement.
Mr. Iwata hinted the company is making progress in expanding to China. Earlier in the year, he also alluded to new initiatives such as health care-related business, word of which could come at Thursday¡¦s strategy briefing.
