<title:>Business
21st Century Fox, Apollo Finalize Pact for TV Venture; Agreement Brings ¡§Big Brother,¡¨ ¡§The Biggest Loser¡¨ and ¡§American Idol¡¨ Under One Production Umbrella
<Date:>10 October 2014
<Content:>
21st Century Fox Inc. and private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC have formed a programming partnership that will combine three television production companies into one with the hopes of creating a global entertainment giant.
Under the terms of the joint venture, 21st Century Fox¡¦s Shine Group and Apollo¡¦s Endemol and Core Media will be merged. All three companies are primarily known for unscripted content. Core is a producer of Fox¡¦s ¡§American Idol.¡¨ Shine makes ¡§The Biggest Loser¡¨ for NBC. Endemol¡¦s shows include ¡§Big Brother,¡¨ which airs on CBS.
¡§The combination of these assets will create a leading global format business with a deep and diverse portfolio of products, enhanced distribution capabilities and world-class creative talent,¡¨ said 21st Century Fox President Chase Carey.
The terms of transaction weren¡¦t disclosed but the entity has been valued at more than $2 billion, people familiar with the companies said.
The deal, which had been in the works since spring, continues a trend of consolidation among unscripted production companies. U.K. broadcaster ITV PLC has been very active, acquiring an 80% stake of Leftfield Entertainment, whose shows include ¡§Pawn Stars, and a 61.5% piece of ¡§Duck Dynasty¡¨ producer Gurney Productions.
Last month, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. bought a 55% stake One Three Media, a joint-venture between ¡§Survivor¡¨ producer Mark Burnett and Hearst Corp.
More sales may be in the works. Tinopolis PLC, which has been a buyer is now said to be on the block. Earlier this year, Tinopolis acquired Magical Elves, which makes ¡§Top Chef¡¨ for Bravo. It also owns A. Smith & Co. Productions, producer of Fox¡¦s ¡§Hell¡¦s Kitchen.¡¨
Another motivating for 21st Century Fox may have been to keep pace with Time Warner Inc.¡¦s Warner Bros. and Sony Corp. both of which have been aggressive in expanding abroad through acquisitions of production companies.
Fox and Endemol will each own 50% of the venture, which has more than 600 scripted and nonscripted formats and have operations in more than 30 markets. Sophie Turner Laing, a former managing director of content at British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC, which Fox has a large ownership stake in, has been named chief executive of the as-yet-unnamed company.
As a result of the deal, several top executives from the individual companies will be leaving, including Shine Non-Executive Chairman Elisabeth Murdoch, daughter of 21st Century Fox Chairman and Chief Executive Rupert Murdoch. Until last year, 21st Century Fox was part of the same company as News Corp, the owner of The Wall Street Journal.
¡§As Shine enters this new chapter with new partners, it is the right time for me to take the final step back from the company I love,¡¨ Ms. Murdoch said in a written statement. Shine was founded by Ms. Murdoch in 2001 and sold in 2011 for $675 million. 
