<title:>Tech
Line Unveils New Features, Not New Finance
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XLine Corp., the owner of a popular Japanese smartphone messaging application, on Thursday introduced mobile payments and other new services in an effort to expand without immediate recourse to outside investment.
The company has attracted more than 560 million user accounts in Japan and elsewhere in Asia by offering a free chat app, cutesy digital ¡§stickers¡¨ and catchy games. Line looked set to go public later this year for as much as $9 billion, but those plans were put on hold last month, fueling speculation that it might seek a buyer or tie-up¡Xa possibility the company¡¦s chief executive rejected.
¡§At this point, we have no intention of accepting capital,¡¨ Akira Morikawa, Line¡¦s chief executive, said at a news conference, adding that Line¡¦s thinking reflected the position of its parent company, Naver Corp. of South Korea. ¡§We aren't considering that and won't consider it.¡¨
Instead, Line¡¦s focus is on expanding its business by offering new functions to compete with the latest innovations of its main rivals.
In addition to the payment feature, other new services announced Thursday include music streaming, food delivery and digital taxi-hailing, as well as a mapping function that provides detailed floor plans of department stores and other buildings.
Another new function will let users post comments publicly, as on Twitter. Until now, Line has focused on private messaging between users who know each other.
Many of the new services, including Line Pay, closely resemble features previously introduced by WeChat, a messaging platform owned by Tencent Holdings Ltd. of China. Along with WhatsApp, which Facebook Inc. recently acquired for $19 billion, WeChat and Line are bidding to become global mobile communications platforms. But WeChat and Line have made only tentative steps beyond Asia so far, and many of the new Line services will only be available in Japan at first.
¡§With the presence of strong rivals, we think the U.S. market is challenging,¡¨ said Takeshi Idezawa, COO of Line. ¡§As one of the first steps, we plan to increase our presence there.¡¨
The new payment system, which Line said it would introduce in Japan this winter, will let users purchase goods and services at participating online and traditional retailers, using their smartphones. They will be able to send credit to other users of the service, or split bills with them. Line Pay, as the function is called, will also work in concert with the other new services, including the taxi-calling feature.
Mr. Morikawa and other Line executives said they would reconsider the possibility of an IPO after the new services are up and running next year¡Xan approach that analysts said made sense.
¡§If they have this payment thing running in the next six months, that could really give them a leg up,¡¨ said Neha Dharia, an analyst at Ovum, a telecommunications consulting firm. ¡§If it¡¦s successful, it could open up a huge revenue stream for them.¡¨
But Ms. Dharia said mobile payment services could be difficult to expand to other markets because that would require cooperating with local banks and navigating multiple sets of financial regulation. Line, which generated ?18.2 billion ($168 million) in sales in the April-June quarter, doesn't provide a regional breakdown of its financial results, but analysts say the vast majority of its sales come from Japan.
In Japan, the company has faced rising concern over security, following reports of a number of hacking incidents. For the payment service, it announced beefed-up security measures.
Line¡¦s new music service, which it is setting up with the music division of Sony Corp. and Avex Group, one of Japan¡¦s largest independent music companies, will offer subscription music streaming. While subscription streaming has been widely available to smartphone users in other markets for several years, rights holders in Japan have been reluctant to license their music for such services. But plunging sales of CDs and digital downloads have caused them to reassess.
Line also said it was taking steps to broaden the appeal of its mobile games¡Xuntil now aimed at mainstream audiences¡Xto try to attract more serious players. The company said it had formed several joint ventures to develop new games, including one with Gree Inc., one of Japan¡¦s leading mobile game companies.
