<title:>Business
¡¥Fury¡¦ Chases Away ¡¥Gone Girl¡¦ at Box Office; World War II Drama Took in $23.5 Million, Leading a Cluster of Weak Debuts for Several New Films
<Date:>19 October 2014
<Content:>
Three films catering to three different audiences premiered at the box office this weekend, but none turned out enough viewers to qualify as a runaway hit.
The World War II drama ¡§Fury¡¨ rolled into the top spot with an estimated $23.5 million, while the animated film ¡§The Book of Life¡¨ collected $17 million to take third place. The latest adaptation of a Nicholas Sparks romance novel, ¡§The Best of Me,¡¨ opened with few sparks itself, grossing $10.2 million in a fifth-place debut.
¡§Fury,¡¨ starring Brad Pitt as a tank commander in the final days of the war, opened lower than some expected, but could benefit from the longer shelf life typically seen for adult dramas at movie theaters. Its opening is comparable to that of ¡§The Monuments Men,¡¨ another World War II drama that went on to gross $78 million earlier this year.
¡§Fury,¡¨ released by Sony Corp.¡¦s Columbia Pictures and co-financed by QED International, had a final cost of about $68 million.
¡§People who might not have been the target audience are quite surprised by the film,¡¨ said Rory Bruer, Sony¡¦s president of worldwide distribution. About 60% of the opening-weekend audience were men.
¡§The Book of Life,¡¨ which sets a romance against the Mexican holiday of D?a de Los Muertos, is the second feature film from the Reel FX Inc. animation studio and had a budget of $50 million. Produced by Guillermo del Toro and featuring the voices of Channing Tatum and Zoe Saldana, the movie received an A- grade from audiences, according to the CinemaScore market research firm.
The movie was distributed by Twentieth Century Fox, whose parent company, 21st Century Fox Inc., was until recently part of the same company as The Wall Street Journal.
The opening for ¡§Best of Me¡¨ is the worst yet for the Nicholas Sparks brand. ¡§Best of Me,¡¨ distributed by Relativity Media LLC with a budget of $26 million, stars James Marsden and Michelle Monaghan as star-crossed high school sweethearts who rekindle a romance years later.
The weak opening for ¡§Best of Me¡¨ is an outlier among adaptations of the author¡¦s romance novels, which have been reliable box-office performers since 2004¡¦s ¡§The Notebook¡¨ grossed $81 million and went on to become a cultural juggernaut thanks to a second life on cable and home video. But the opening for ¡§The Best of Me¡¨ is less than half of that seen in the debut weekend of Relativity¡¦s last Nicholas Sparks release, last year¡¦s ¡§Safe Haven.¡¨
¡§We have had great success with Nicholas Sparks over the years and are always glad to be in business with him,¡¨ a Relativity spokesperson said, adding the studio expects the film to play well in coming weeks.
Meanwhile, Fox¡¦s holdover hit ¡§Gone Girl¡¨ collected an additional $17.8 million, bringing its three-week total to $107.1 million.
Director Jason Reitman¡¦s ¡§Men, Women & Children,¡¨ a look at social-media mores released by Viacom Inc.¡¦s Paramount Pictures, didn¡¦t connect with audiences upon wide release, grossing only $320,000 in 608 locations. 
