<title:>Business
Pay TV¡¦s New Worry: ¡¥Shaving¡¦ the Cord; A Growing Share of Subscribers Are Choosing Skinnier Bundles of Channels
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
The biggest U.S. cable-TV channels are experiencing a troubling trend: Their reach into American households is shrinking.
Over the past four years, the top 40 most widely distributed channels in 2010¡Xhousehold names like CNN, ESPN and USA¡Xhave lost an average of 3.2 million subscribers, or more than 3% of their distribution, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of data from measurement firm Nielsen.
Some in the industry point to consumers who are ¡§cutting the cord,¡¨ ditching their cable and satellite-TV connections in favor of more affordable online video options like Netflix and Hulu. But the numbers don¡¦t add up. Last year the pay-TV industry lost 166,000 subscribers, according to research firm MoffettNathanson LLC. While that was the first annual decline on record, it isn¡¦t enough to account for the subscriber declines of the biggest cable channels.
Indeed, the data and interviews with a range of cable-TV industry executives suggest that something else is going on: Many consumers aren¡¦t so much cutting the cord as shaving it.
A growing share of pay-TV customers are signing up for smaller, cheaper bundles of channels that cost anywhere from $10 to $50 a month and don¡¦t include popular channels like TNT, USA, ESPN, CNN, Fox News, Disney Channel and Discovery Channel, the industry executives say.
¡§What we are seeing is some cord cutting and some cord shaving,¡¨ said Stephen Hasker, global president of Nielsen. ¡§Consumer time and attention is shifting.¡¨
Basic plans that include little more than local broadcast stations now make up some 12% of pay-TV subscriptions, up from 8% to 10% a few years ago, according to estimates by some industry executives. Some consumers are also turning to cheaper, sports-free and family-oriented packages, executives say.
¡§We think cord-shaving is a reality going forward,¡¨ says AT&T Inc.¡¦s Chief Strategy Officer John Stankey.
The shift of consumers to lower-priced plans is a worrying sign for media companies, striking at the heart of how they make money. TV channels are paid by cable and satellite-TV providers on a per-subscriber basis. Over time, declines in subscribers could dent these companies¡¦ growth. Pay-TV providers face significant risks, too. If more people downgrade to skinny tiers, it could pressure revenue, analysts say.
Some media executives say losing a few million subscribers to their channels doesn¡¦t immediately raise alarms. They point out that they have been able to raise the fees they charge pay-TV operators for each subscriber more than enough to offset the declines. Media companies are also optimistic about selling their channels to new Web-based TV services from companies like Sony Corp.
But others are doing some soul searching over how and why this happened. Some executives say media companies have been so eager to make content available to streaming-video companies like Netflix Inc.¡Xwhich pays a lot of money for those rights¡Xthat they have actually undermined the pay-TV ecosystem, encouraging consumers to think they can find good programming for cheap online.
¡§We¡¦re at a tipping point of consumers thinking Internet first and TV second,¡¨ says Bryan Rader, CEO of Bandwidth Consulting LLC, a firm that advises investors about pay-TV marketing trends.
The precise number of people moving to skinnier bundles of channels is murky, since cable-TV providers closely guard that data. Media companies, meanwhile, don¡¦t disclose the distribution of their TV channels, and some of them contest Nielsen¡¦s estimates, arguing that changes in the media measurement specialist¡¦s methodology are to blame.
But data points are piling up to show ¡§cord shaving¡¨ is for real. At least two pay-TV providers say about 10% of gross TV subscriber additions are customers who are taking a slimmed-down bundle¡Xin contrast to the bigger ones with hundreds of channels that can cost upward of $100 a month.
Most of the biggest channels have lost between three million and five million subscribers since 2010. The two most expensive channels, which feature marquee sports events¡XWalt Disney Co.¡¦s ESPN and Time Warner Inc.¡¦s TNT¡Xhave been the hardest hit, with subscriber drops of nearly 5%. ESPN this year is expected to receive average monthly fees of $6.04 per subscriber, while TNT will receive $1.44, according to SNL Kagan.
ESPN, touting its ¡§35-year history of innovation,¡¨ responded that ¡§the demand for live sports will only continue to grow.¡¨
There are some limits on how far cord-shaving can go. Big channels like ESPN stipulate in their contracts with distributors that they need to be in the most widely distributed tiers or reach a high percentage of the customer base. That means if too many people start subscribing to cheaper tiers¡XISI Group LLC analyst Vijay Jayant says the threshold is between 10% to 20% of the total base¡Xproviders may have to start bringing the big channels into those bundles and they won¡¦t be as skinny.
Skinny TV packages have technically been available for years, but operators barely marketed them. A 1992 law stipulated that cable-TV providers must offer ¡§basic¡¨ tiers, consisting of a handful of local broadcast stations and public programming. A mid-2000s push by regulators led to family-oriented tiers, but pay-TV providers didn¡¦t market those packages broadly either.
Operators¡¦ thinking has changed. Attracting cost-conscious consumers and the growing pool of people who have never had a cable subscription and mainly consume online video¡Xso called ¡§cord nevers¡¨¡Xis now part of their growth strategy. The hope is that they can hook those consumers into pay-TV with the skinny plans and encourage them over time to upgrade to more expensive bundles.
Comcast Corp. last year began marketing a basic tier paired with high-speed Internet and HBO for a promotional price of roughly $50 a month, although it can vary by market. AT&T recently launched a similar offer that also comes with a year¡¦s free subscription to Amazon.com Inc.¡¦s Prime streaming video and shipping service. Meanwhile Verizon FiOS and DirecTV have put more marketing muscle behind slimmed-down TV bundles.
Some TV executives say that their internal numbers show shallower declines in their channels¡¦ reach than Nielsen¡¦s data does. A big issue, they say, stems from Nielsen¡¦s decision last year to include broadband-only homes in the panel of consumers it samples to gather industry data. Nielsen warned the change could affect each channel¡¦s household reach estimate by about 1.2%.
But the drop-off in major channels¡¦ reach has been going on since 2010¡Xlong before the Nielsen readjustment. Most network executives said that even if their internal numbers didn¡¦t match Nielsen¡¦s exactly, the direction was the same¡Xa steady subscriber decline that is expected to continue.
Nielsen says the subscriber declines are a real phenomenon.
Cord-shaving may be the biggest near-term threat. But the industry¡¦s bigger long-term risk is that consumers will get so fed up with rising cable prices that more will cut the cord entirely.
Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson analyst, said ¡§investors have gotten complacent and started to believe that cord cutting isn¡¦t a real risk¡Kprecisely at the time that the forces of cord cutting are starting to gather more momentum.¡¨
