<title:>Business
CBS Promises Streaming Service as Earnings Jump; Media Company¡¦s Revenue Rises 2%, Helped by Higher Licensing and Advertising Fees
<Date:>5 November 2014
<Content:>
CBS Corp. said Wednesday its pay channel Showtime will follow the lead of rival HBO and offer its programming through a streaming service available to people who don¡¦t have pay television subscriptions.
Speaking to analysts on the company¡¦s third quarter earnings call, CBS Chief Executive Leslie Moonves said ¡§fairly definitively¡¨ Showtime will have such an ¡§over-the-top¡¨ Web offering in 2015. CBS has already launched such a service for its broadcast network and on Thursday it will debut a streaming news service called CBSN.
Programmers such as CBS and Time Warner Inc.¡¦s HBO are aggressively looking for new ways to reach viewers that may be eschewing traditional cable and satellite television. CBS also said it had reached an agreement to have its content streamed on a new over-the-top video service being launched by Sony Corp.
In its traditional TV business, CBS¡¦s growth in the third quarter came primarily from content-licensing and the subscription fees paid by pay TV operators. That was partially offset by a soft advertising market. The entertainment segment¡Xwhich includes the television network, CBS Television studios and CBS Films¡Xreported revenue grew 1.4% to $1.91 billion.
The cable networks unit reported revenue rose 4.7% to $624 million, mostly on revenue from the licensing of Showtime original series, as well as increases in affiliate revenue at Showtime Networks, CBS Sports Network and Smithsonian Networks.
Over all, CBS reported a profit of $1.64 billion, or $3.03 a share, which included a $1.56 billion gain related to its spinoff of the outdoor advertising company CBS Outdoor Americas Inc. A year ago, the company had earnings of $494 million, or 80 cents a share. Excluding restructuring-related charges, write-downs related to a radio station swap and other items, earnings from continuing operations were 74 cents a share.
Revenue increased 2% to $3.37 billion. Content licensing and distribution revenue grew 4.3% to $1.4 billion, thanks to increased international and domestic licensing of television programming.
CBS is anticipating a battle with satellite operator Dish Network Corp. as the companies renegotiate their carriage contract, which expires at the end of this month. Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen said Tuesday that the CBS broadcast network¡¦s new online service ¡§makes that product less interesting¡¨ for pay-TV operators because ¡§customers have a choice to get it somewhere else.¡¨
CBS¡¦s Mr. Moonves, noting that the network¡¦s ratings are up this season, sounded confident about the Dish situation. ¡§We¡¦re determined to get paid fair value for our programming. We know how to get this done and rest assured we will,¡¨ he said.
Mr. Moonves also touted new affiliation deals with LIN Media, Tribune Broadcasting, Media General and Gray Television that have the company on track to take in $2 billion in revenues by 2020 for carriage of its programming.
