<title:>Markets
Nikkei Leads Rally in Asian Markets; Shares Jump Following Strong Gains on Wall Street
<Date:>21 October 2014
<Content:>
Japanese stocks surged for a second time this week, rebounding from a big drop Tuesday, while Hong Kong shares gained for a fourth straight day after the government and pro-democracy student leaders held official talks for the first time Tuesday.
Asian markets got a boost from a sharp rise in Wall Street shares overnight, driven by strong quarterly results from Apple and news that the European Central Bank is considering further stimulus.
The Nikkei Stock Average led gains in the region, jumping 2.6% to 15195.77, as the dollar moved back above ?107.
The latest read on Japanese exports showed a rise of 6.9% from a year earlier in September, helped by a weaker yen and a surge in output among suppliers of components for Apple・s new smartphones. Still, Japan・s trade deficit edged up 1.6% from a year earlier to ?958.3 billion ($8.96 billion), the first increase in three months.
Stocks in Japan have had a rough run lately, with big declines last week sending the Nikkei into correction territory, down more than 10% from a late-September peak. On Tuesday the Nikkei lost 2%, after it gained 4% Monday.
The Nikkei tends to rise when the yen falls, because a weaker yen is generally positive for earnings at Japan・s exporters. The dollar has backtracked against the yen in October after gaining earlier in the year. Midday Wednesday in New York, the greenback was at ?107.28, up from ?107 late Tuesday.
Shares of Japanese shippers were strong, as the Baltic Dry Index of freight rates rose for a third straight session to a one-month high. Nippon Yusen added 4.3% and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines gained 5.4%.
Sony rose 3.4% following reports it will exit its low-end, emerging-market-oriented smartphone business and on news that activist investor Third Point had sold its Sony stock.
Fujifilm Holdings gained 4.1% after a Nikkei report that the company is likely to book a 20% on-year rise in group operating profit for the April-September fiscal half, to around ?70 billion, as its digital camera business moved out of the red. The firm is also enjoying positive exposure as the developer of Avigan, currently in demand as an Ebola treatment.
In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index rose 1.4% to 23403.97, pushing it to a month-to-date gain of 2.05% despite protests that have hurt the city・s retailers and other businesses.
The government and pro-democracy student leaders held official talks Tuesday, but there was no agreement over how the city・s chief executive should be elected.
Australia・s S&P/ASX 200 gained 1.1% to 5385.90, its seventh consecutive rise, putting the index back in positive territory for the year.
BHP Billiton was up 1.5% after the company reported strong petroleum and metallurgical-coal production and solid iron-ore output figures for the September quarter. Rio Tinto gained 2.1%, while fellow iron-ore producer Fortescue Metals added 3.1%.
Australia・s largest banks all advanced, climbing between 0.5% and 1.3%. The earnings season for the lenders kicks off next week with National Australia Bank・s full-year results.
South Korea・s Kospi climbed 1.1% to 1936.97.
Hyundai Motor fell 4.2% ahead of its third-quarter report. The firm is expected to post a net profit of 1.87 trillion won ($1.77 billion), down 17% from a year earlier, while sales likely fell 12% to 20.57 trillion won, according to a Wall Street Journal poll.
In India, the S&P BSE Sensex gained 0.8% to 26787.23, its fourth straight rise.
Robb Stewart
Corrections & Amplifications
The Nikkei Stock Average tends to rise when the yen falls. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said the Nikkei tends to trade inversely to the U.S. dollar.
