<title:>Markets
Foreign Companies Are Cooling on China; Slowing Economy, Regulatory Crackdowns Are Forcing Many Multinationals to Scale Back
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
Foreign companies are wielding their axes in China.
For years, multinationals plowed money into China, hoping to benefit from its fast growth. Now, a combination of slower growth there, weak global demand and a feeling that Beijing has singled out foreign businesses for regulatory crackdowns is pushing an increasing number of companies to cut their staffs.
The number of European companies doing business in China that cut staff in the past year rose to 16% this year from 10% in 2012, according to a survey by the European Chamber of Commerce in China. Likewise, the number planning to boost permanent staff fell to 48% this year from 61% in 2012.
：The gold-rush stage is over,； said Kirsten Mao, a partner at ManGo Associates, a Chinese recruiting firm. ：Many multinationals which have overexpanded in China are now in a restructuring mood.；
The staff reductions are part of a broader cost-cutting wave among foreign companies operating in China. The European Chamber of Commerce survey said 24% of companies plan to cut costs in China in 2014, up from 22% in 2013.
U.S. companies share the same views. In a survey by the American Chamber of Commerce, 27% of American companies in China said they see no investment expansion in the country over the next year, up from 16% last year.
Some multinationals are plagued by woes outside China. Reductions in China at International Business Machines Corp., Sony Corp., Microsoft Corp.・s Nokia unit and Adobe Systems Inc. are part of global job cuts.
After years of expansion, some are scaling back. Carlyle Group, the alternative asset management company, is laying off about 10 people working on its China growth fund, according to people familiar with the matter. It closed the growth fund・s Chengdu office last year and is going to trim the growth-fund team in its Shanghai office and consolidate it with the Beijing team.
A spokesman at Carlyle declined to comment.
Some companies are also fleeing what they see as a hostile business environment in China. Almost half of the American firms surveyed believe foreign companies have been singled out in a string of pricing or anticorruption campaigns that have hit pharmaceutical, tech and auto companies recently, according to the American chamber.
China is also losing its advantages as a low-cost country. Financial-services company DTCC Solutions LLC SRO, a unit of U.S.-based Depository Trust and Clearing Corp., is moving its small Shanghai operation to Wales. A number of companies are making similar moves, consolidating offices and tapping into low-cost English-speaking work forces. The company said it is committed to Asia and is expanding in other offices.
Chinese growth, while still strong by developed-country standards, is slowing, and that is hurting company profits. According to the European Chamber of Commerce, only 63% of European companies in China were profitable in 2013, down from 73% in 2011. Revenue-growth expectations for their China operations are at their lowest levels since the peak of the financial crisis, the group says.
Slower investment demand at multinational companies also has hit staffing companies. Ms. Mao・s search firm, which has eight offices in China, is looking to close an office. After growing by 50% to 60% annually for the past few years, revenue is likely to be flat in the next two years, she expects.
Landlords and others who cater to expatriates have felt the chill. Adam McWhirter, managing director at Maxxelli Real Estate in Chongqing, said housing allowances have fallen or been stripped away in some cases as companies try to hire local talent instead. Kenny Hon, general manager of the Beijing Riviera, an upscale property development, said occupancy has dropped to 84% from 93% last year, as companies like Shell and Nokia cut jobs.
All this gloom is good news for law firms with labor-dispute practices. Chinese law says companies can only do mass layoffs if they haven・t made a profit for three years or have been unable to pay employees for eight months. If they don・t meet those criteria, the layoffs can be blocked.
As money gets tighter, foreign companies also are clamping down on spending. A U.S. company laid off 20 people in China for submitting false dental-reimbursement claims, according to Kevin Jones, partner at law firm Faegre Baker Daniels, which advises on employment matters.
Foreign companies・ pain may be Chinese companies・ gain. Some are eager to scoop up well-trained local talent from foreign companies. E-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. recently courted local engineers from Nokia by splashing a ：Nokia, welcome to Alibaba； banner across its recruiting website.
Corrections & Amplifications
Carlyle Group is going to trim the team that works on its China growth fund at its Shanghai office. An earlier version of this article said Carlyle is closing the Shanghai office. (Oct. 23, 2014)
