<title:>Business
Dalian Wanda Plans Fund to Lure Movie Business to China; Wang Jianlin Continues Promoting Oriental Movie Metropolis
<Date:>7 October 2014
<Content:>
QINGDAO, China¡XDalian Wanda Group Corp., in its aim to build a Chinese version of Hollywood, said it plans to set up an annual fund of one billion yuan, or about $160 million, to lure movie producers to a planned multibillion-dollar studio project.
Wang Jianlin, chairman of the property-and-entertainment conglomerate and one of China¡¦s richest men, said the company would work with the private sector to annually provide the funding for film and television production at the Oriental Movie Metropolis, a studio project on which Wanda broke ground last year.
The Chinese coastal city of Qingdao will also provide funding, said Wanda, which owns U.S. theater chain AMC Entertainment Group. Wanda initially said Qingdao would provide half the funding, though company officials later said the amount was unspecified.
The fund is part of what Mr. Wang has said is a plan to recreate Hollywood in China.
Standing in front of a room of film producers and studio executives¡Xincluding David Glasser, chief operating officer of Weinstein Co., film deal maker John Sloss and Zhang Qiang, the newly tapped head of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.¡¦s production arm¡XMr. Wang touted the access to funds and facilities that the industry would find in Qingdao.
¡§If you don¡¦t go to China, where will you go?¡¨ Mr. Wang said.
He added that a district government within Qingdao is promising subsidies of as much as 10% of a production studio¡¦s annual revenue.
Wanda last year announced an investment of 30 billion yuan to 50 billion yuan in an entertainment center in Qingdao that will partially open in 2016 and will include a theme park, a film museum, a wax museum and a massive film studio.
A number of other Chinese companies and cities have announced plans to set up facilities to lure the entertainment industry. Mr. Wang says he is putting his money where his mouth is to ensure that the project takes off. ¡§The Oriental Movie Metropolis will certainly succeed,¡¨ he said.
In September of last year, he flew out Hollywood stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Nicole Kidman, as well as David Kosse, then-president of the international division of Comcast Corp.¡¦s Universal Pictures, and Ralph Alexander, a senior executive vice president of Sony Corp.¡¦s entertainment international operations, to attend the groundbreaking. Mr. Wang said the film studio would be the world¡¦s largest and told producers that they would benefit from its planned research-and-development and special-effects centers.
Wanda says it has already made inroads in film projects, signing a deal late last year with Weinstein Co. to produce ¡§Southpaw,¡¨ a boxing film starring actor Jake Gyllenhaal. Wanda is also setting up a base for entertainment investments as part of a $1.2 billion real-estate development in Los Angeles. 
