<title:>Tech
Toshiba Accelerates PC Business Restructuring; Firm's PC Operations to Focus on Business-to-Business Field
<Date:>17 September 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XToshiba Corp. on Thursday said it would accelerate the restructuring of its PC business to focus on the business-to-business field and would withdraw from certain consumer markets.
Hoping to reap the fruits of five years of cost-cutting this year, the Japanese company said it would reduce the size of its global workforce in the PC business by about 900 workers, which is 20% of its PC operations head count, excluding the manufacturing segment.
It will also cut fixed costs by more than ?20 billion versus the previous fiscal year ended in March and reduce the number of sales bases around the world to 13 in the current fiscal year from 32. The company didn't specify which consumer markets it would withdraw from.
Noting that its PC business reported positive operating income in the first quarter of this fiscal year, Toshiba said the cost of structural reforms would subtract ?45 billion ($415.24 million) from its operating profit and remove ?36 billion from its net profit. The company currently projects a ?330 billion operating profit and a ?120 billion net profit for this fiscal year.
"The PC market is expected to see a continuing trend to modest growth rates, and these transformation measures are necessary to support the business in securing consistent profit," Toshiba said in a statement.
Major Japanese electronics makers have undergone structural reforms in recent years to reorganize unprofitable businesses and to increase their global competitiveness. In July, Toshiba already announced a restructuring of its visual products business to focus more on Japan and rapidly growing emerging nations.
On Wednesday, Sony Corp. said that it expected its net loss for this fiscal year to balloon to ?230 billion as a result of an impairment charge connected to smartphones and acknowledged it wouldn't be a major player in the devices, which had been one of the company's last hopes for turning around its electronics arm. 
