<title:>Business
Corporate Watch: News Digest
<Date:>22 October 2014
<Content:>
SONY
Smartphone Sales Target Could Drop
Sony Corp. is considering slashing its smartphone sales target again, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, as the business struggles in the face of fierce competition¡Xespecially in emerging markets.
The Japanese electronics giant is likely to trim its smartphone sales target by several millions of units from the current goal of 43 million for the 12 months ending March 2015, those people said. A lowering of the sales target would be the second downward revision of the forecast in the current business year started in April. The original goal was 50 million, which many analysts said at the time was too optimistic.
The expected revision stems from Sony¡¦s plan to reduce its presence in some markets, especially emerging nations such as China, by pulling its entry-level handsets.
Takashi Mochizuki
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Defense Contractor Reports Robust Quarter
General Dynamics Corp. on Wednesday reported forecast-beating quarterly profits and increased its 2014 guidance, with signs that orders for its core combat and information technology units have bottomed out.
The company also said it would secure very strong orders for its Gulfstream Aerospace business jets in the fourth quarter, and moved to calm analysts¡¦ concerns that new models introduced last week could cannibalize sales of its existing lineup.
General Dynamics¡¦ stock has been the best performer among U.S. aerospace and defense peers this year, driven largely by the contribution of Gulfstream and restructuring efforts that have improved the profitability of its core defense operations.
General Dynamics reported a profit of $696 million for the third quarter compared with $651 million a year earlier. Per-share earnings rose to $2.06 from $1.84, well ahead of the $1.91 analysts¡¦ consensus. Revenue edged up 0.2% to $7.75 billion.
Doug Cameron and Chelsey Dulaney
BMW
Mini Cooper¡¦s Fuel Economy Will Be Lowered
BMW AG will reduce the advertised fuel economy of four 2014 Mini Cooper models after an audit by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found that the original values were inflated.
The agency has been stepping up its review of the mileage values submitted by auto makers after earlier audits found that the manufacturer-reported mileage claims exceeded the values the agency obtained in its own lab tests. Hyundai Motor Co., Ford Motor Co. and Daimler AG¡¦s Mercedes-Benz brand have recently revised mileage ratings for certain cars after EPA questioned the original values.
In BMW¡¦s case, EPA said city, highway or combined mileage estimates for four 2014 Mini Cooper models were overstated by as much as four miles per gallon.
Joseph B. White
BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO
Revenue Fizzles for Lucky Strike Maker
British American Tobacco PLC on Wednesday reported a big fall in nine-month revenue, blaming a slow recovery in Western Europe and pressure on the disposable incomes of consumers in all its big markets.
The maker of Lucky Strike, Dunhill and Kent cigarettes said revenue fell 9.6% in the nine months to Sept. 30, largely because of currency weakness in its major markets.
BAT said cigarette volumes declined 1% in the period, compared with a fall of 3.2% a year earlier. The company said growth in the Middle East, Pakistan and Ukraine failed to make up for falling demand in Russia, Vietnam and Brazil.
¡§Although currency movements impacted our reported results, the group continues to perform well and we are on track to deliver another year of good earnings growth,¡¨ Chief Executive Nicandro Durante said.
Peter Evans
