<title:>World
<Date:>30 October 2014
<Content:>
TAIPEI¡XTaiwan¡¦s economy logged its best quarter in almost two years, as higher income from electronic exports and tourist arrivals filtered through to the rest of the economy.
In the three months ended Sept. 30, Taiwan¡¦s gross domestic product rose 3.78% from the same period a year earlier and was up 0.49% from the previous quarter, an initial reading by the Directorate General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics showed Friday. This was the highest pace of expansion, since the economy recorded GDP growth of 3.85% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a year-over-year basis, growth was largely in line with the government¡¦s previous estimate of 3.62% and the median 3.85% increase forecast by 10 economists in a survey by The Wall Street Journal. The economy expanded 3.74% in the previous quarter.
Taiwanese manufacturers are supplying key components such as microprocessors and camera lenses to global electronics brands such as Apple Inc. and Sony Corp. Near-record overseas sales of semiconductors for iPhones, continued but modest recovery in key overseas markets, particularly the U.S., and strong growth in income from tourism boosted Taiwan¡¦s overall exports by 6.68% in the third quarter from a year earlier. That was faster than a 2.88% growth in the second quarter.
Economists say strong demand for new iPhones and the global rollout of faster fourth-generation mobile networks will continue to buoy demand for Taiwanese-made electronic components in the fourth quarter.
According to the Tourism Bureau, 7.25 million people visited Taiwan during the first nine months of this year, up 25% from a year earlier. China was the largest source of tourists, with 2.96 million people visiting, up 36% from a year earlier.
Barclays Research predicts Taiwan¡¦s GDP will grow 4.10% this year, better than the government¡¦s target of 3.41%, citing rising income from tourism. But it will still be way below the plus-5% expansion it regularly reported before the global financial crisis.
Capital formation, which includes government and private-sector investment in fixed assets and changes in inventories, gained 7.89% in the third quarter, after rising 6.9% in the second quarter.
An improving job market also lifted private consumption by 2.43% in the third quarter, although it was slower than a 2.53% rise in the second quarter. The government said the gain was partly offset by a drop in sales at restaurants since an adulterated cooking-oil scandal broke in early September.
