<title:>New York
N.Y. Film Fest 'the Holy Grail' for 'Whiplash' Director
<Date:>29 September 2014
<Content:>
After showing at Sundance, Cannes and Toronto, the new movie "Whiplash"¡Xout Oct. 10 from Sony Pictures Classics¡Xscreened at the New York Film Festival on Sunday night.
The area festival "is kind of like the Holy Grail," said the film's 29-year-old writer and director Damien Chazelle, who grew up in Princeton, N.J., reading about films showing there.
"I couldn't afford tickets," he added, at a dinner before the premiere at the restaurant Smith.
"Whiplash," a kind of "Black Swan" for the jazz-drumming set, is based on Mr. Chazelle's experiences at Princeton High School, which had a particularly competitive and nationally renowned jazz band. In the film, which is at times harrowing and at times comic, Miles Teller plays a first-year drummer at a New York City conservatory dealing with the pressures foisted on him by an aggressive, abusive and passionate music teacher, played by the character actor J.K. Simmons.
Downtown Los Angeles substituted for much of New York during filming, Mr. Chazelle said. "We were able to get enough budget to shoot in New York for an afternoon," including Carnegie Hall, but downtown L.A., he said, "helped paint a portrait less of what New York City is now than a child's nightmare view of a '70s New York."
To conjure excitement for a full-length film, Mr. Chazelle originally made a 20-minute short on a $25,000 budget, which showed at last year's New York Film Festival. For the short, Jason Reitman, one of the producers of "Whiplash," suggested Mr. Simmons, who had starred in Mr. Reitman's "Juno."
When raising money for the feature, financiers suggested actors like Kevin Kline, Kevin Spacey or Jeff Daniels for the role, said Mr. Chazelle. The director demurred and now Mr. Simmons has one of the most buzzed-about performances of the fall film season.
After the screening, Mr. Chazelle was asked exactly how key a drummer is to a jazz band. "Well, not really at all," he said. "But conductors have a special thing about drummers."
What they do might not look very hard, he said, "but without the drum, the whole band collapses." 
