<title:>Business
¡¥Ouija¡¦ Scares Up Box-Office Win; Halloween Horror Film Knock¡¦ Out Brad Pitt¡¦s ¡¥Fury¡¦ With $20 Million Debut
<Date:>26 October 2014
<Content:>
NEW YORK¡XThe spirits moved ¡§Ouija¡¨ to No. 1 at the box office, with the board-game adaptation leading the weekend with a $20 million debut, according to studio estimates Sunday.
The horror movie release, timed to Halloween, attracted more moviegoers at the North America box office than the Keanu Reeves thriller ¡§John Wick.¡¨ The R-rated hit-man revenge tale from Lions Gate opened with $14.2 million in second place.
Last week¡¦s top film, the Brad Pitt World War II action film ¡§Fury,¡¨ slid to third with $13 million. In two weeks, the Sony Pictures release has made $46.1 million.
Board-game adaptations such as ¡§Ouija¡¨ have had a checkered history at the box office, with the big-budget ¡§Battleship¡¨¡Xthe last Hasbro game turned into a movie¡Xfamously flopping in 2012. But ¡§Oujia,¡¨ made by Blumhouse Productions and released by Comcast Corp.¡¦s Universal Pictures, was made for just $5 million, and scared up moviegoers with a micro-budget summoning of brand-name occult.
Two Twentieth Century Fox releases rounded out the domestic top five. David Fincher¡¦s marital noir ¡§Gone Girl,¡¨ starring Ben Affleck, made $11.1 million in its fourth week, bringing its cumulative total to $124 million. It will soon pass Mr. Fincher¡¦s ¡§Benjamin Button¡¨ ($127.5 million) to mark the director¡¦s top box-office hit.
In its second week of release, the animated fantasy ¡§The Book of Life¡¨ earned $9.8 million.
As Hollywood¡¦s awards season begins to heat up, limited-release titles also made noise at the box office. Easily leading all films in per-screen average were Alejandro Gonz?lez I??rritu¡¦s black comedy ¡§Birdman (or The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance),¡¨ starring Michael Keaton, and the Edward Snowden documentary ¡§Citizenfour.¡¨
Laura Poitras¡¦ ¡§Citizenfour¡¨ drew a $25,000 average opening in five theaters for the Weinstein Co.¡¦s Radius unit. Expanding to 50 theaters in its second week, Fox Searchlight¡¦s ¡§Birdman¡¨ took in an average of almost $29,000 per screen.
Fox Searchlight and Twentieth Century Fox parent 21st Century Fox was until last year part of the same company as The Wall Street Journal.
Next weekend¡¦s top film is essentially already decided. Christopher Nolan¡¦s space travel thriller ¡§Interstellar,¡¨ one of the year¡¦s most anticipated releases, opens in select theaters Wednesday and then wide on Friday. Mr. Nolan, an ardent advocate for film, is releasing the movie first in about 240 theaters that still project 35mm or 70mm, rather than digital.
