<title:>Opinion
The Columbus Effect in Business; Pioneering is glorious, but later entrants are often the ones who see the true potential of discoveries.
<Date:>12 October 2014
<Content:>
Christopher Columbus will be feted in many places on Monday as an intrepid explorer, reviled in others as the spearhead of European colonization. But the Genoese ship captain who in 1492 sailed west to parts unknown might be best considered today for what he can tell us about ourselves. The man who successfully pioneered direct cross-Atlantic navigation also died dispossessed and embittered. In this respect Columbus represents a type, not an exception: failing pioneers.
Many scholars believe that pioneers are highly successful, have a high market share, and are long-term leaders of the markets they pioneer. Yet historical analysis shows that pioneers mostly fail, have a lower market share and rarely lead their industries. Long-term market leaders seldom are pioneers. Rather, they are ones who appreciate the discoveries of pioneers, envision the mass market and exploit it profitably.
But the myth lives on. Scholars talk of ¡§first-mover advantage¡¨ as though it were a law. Students come out of business school obsessed with being ¡§first to enter,¡¨ as though it were a pre-eminent strategy. Analysts admonish entrepreneurs to ¡§rush to market.¡¨ The mantra of consultants: ¡§Better to be first than to be better.¡¨
Really? Today¡¦s market leaders in many categories didn¡¦t pioneer those categories. Microsoft didn¡¦t pioneer personal-computer operating systems (QDOS came before) or word processing (WordStar and others came before). Amazon didn¡¦t pioneer online books stores (Books.com came before). Apple didn¡¦t pioneer mobile music, the smartphone, the tablet (Sony, BlackBerry and others came before). Google didn¡¦t pioneer Internet search (AltaVista, among others, came before). And Facebook didn¡¦t pioneer online social networks (Myspace came before).
Why do pioneers tend to fail in the long run? For the same reason that Christopher Columbus didn¡¦t flourish despite his initial success: Pioneers too often cling to their initial intuition, just as Columbus clung for too long to the notion he had reached India. Pioneers focus on the small initial market, failing to envision the vast mass market that they just opened up. Pioneers stick with the initial product even when the market demands relentless innovation. All the while, a surge of later entrants learns from mistakes of pioneers, envisions opportunities and rides on the explosion of new superior technologies.
For example, BlackBerry popularized smart phones with their nifty physical keyboard. But the company ultimately declined because it clung too long to a physical keyboard while consumers were rapidly adopting touch-screen smartphones. Even Thomas Edison fought a bitter losing battle to protect direct current against the then new technology of alternating current¡Xwhich ultimately became the standard.
Yet pioneering is a glorious term. So much so that those who capitalize on the breakthroughs of others often promote themselves as pioneers, basking in their self-anointed glory and feeding the myth of pioneering advantage. If these later entrants forget their humble roots, though, such self-promotion may lead to self-deception. In today¡¦s climate, millions of entrepreneurs the world over are crafting the innovations that can topple overconfident market leaders.
Mr. Tellis, a professor and director of the Center for Global Innovation at the University of Southern California¡¦s Marshall School of Business, is the author of ¡§Unrelenting Innovation: How to Create a Culture for Market Dominance¡¨ (Jossey-Bass, 2013). 
