<title:>Reuters Entertainment News Summary
<Date:>15 October 2014
<Content:>
Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs.
Wal-Mart to offer digital movie access to customers
Wal-Mart Stores Inc is launching a new service for customers to access digital copies of movies they buy at its stores and website across all platforms. The world's largest retailer, along with VUDU, rolled out a beta version of the service, InstaWatch, in collaboration with seven movie studios. These include DreamWorks Home Entertainment, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Warner Home Video and Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment.
Kesha accuses pop producer of abuse in dueling lawsuits
Pop singer Kesha and music producer Dr. Luke unleashed dueling lawsuits on Tuesday trading accusations of abuse and extortion as the "Die Young" singer says she wants out of her record contract with the hit-making producer. Kesha, 27, whose legal name is Kesha Sebert, has accused Dr. Luke in a civil lawsuit filed in Los Angeles Superior Court of sexual, physical, verbal and emotional abuse.
Joan Fontaine's 1941 best actress Oscar up for auction
Silver screen star Joan Fontaine's 1941 best actress Oscar statuette will go on the auction block, Christie's said on Tuesday in a rare sale of Hollywood's top prize. Fontaine, who died last year at age 96, won the honor for her role in Alfred Hitchcock's thriller "Suspicion" playing opposite Cary Grant. She was the only performer to win an Oscar for a Hitchcock film.
Rapper Iggy Azalea leads American Music Award nominations
Australian rapper Iggy Azalea scored the most American Music Award nominations with six nods, including the coveted artist of the year and favorite single and hip hop album, according to an announcement on Monday. Singers John Legend and Pharrell Williams and pop star Katy Perry were not far behind with five nominations, followed by New Zealand's Lorde with four.
From the makers of Denmark's The Killing and Borgen: a costume drama
Denmark has launched a new television series that it hopes will emulate the global success of its previous hits Borgen and The Killing but, eschewing contemporary murder and political twists, it has moved into an entirely new landscape -- historical drama. With the same actors and producers as the Scandinavian Noir dramas that were watched by millions around the world, Danish state-funded broadcaster DR says '1864' keeps the same recipe of character development and melancholy to get viewers hooked.
Brotherhood brings Pitt, cast together in war film 'Fury'
When writer-director David Ayer decided to tackle the "beaten-to-death" World War Two movie genre with "Fury," he decided to make it an intimate affair for his cast led by Brad Pitt. "When I told people I was going to make a World War Two movie, the eyes rolled, you hear the groan," Ayer recalled. "It's really the study of a family that happens to live in a tank and kill people."
Australia's Flanagan takes Man Booker prize with war story
Australian novelist Richard Flanagan said that before winning the prestigious Man Booker prize for literature on Tuesday he had considered becoming a miner because he found it so difficult to make a living at his craft. Flanagan, 53, won the prestigious 50,000-pound ($79,530) prize for his novel "The Narrow Road to the Deep North", set during the building of the Thailand-Burma "Death Railway" in World War Two.
Penelope Cruz named 'sexiest woman alive' by Esquire magazine
Spanish actress Penelope Cruz has been named this year's "sexiest woman alive" by Esquire, the men's lifestyle magazine said on Monday. The 40-year-old follows last year's winner, American actress Scarlett Johansson, to earn the honor chosen by Esquire editors.
'Paddington' film brings 1950s bear to 21st century London
He may be among the world's best beloved bears, but he also is one of the most endangered in the new movie "Paddington", in which Nicole Kidman co-stars as a taxidermist looking to complete her collection of rare animals. Due for release later this year, the live-action feature film based on the marmalade-loving bear from darkest Peru, has been a long time coming. 
Released: 2014-10-15T13:56:43.000Z
