<title:>Business
'Equalizer' Takes Top Spot; Action Film Starring Denzel Washington Beats Out Holdover 'The Maze Runner'
<Date:>28 September 2014
<Content:>
"The Equalizer" topped the box office with an estimated $35 million debut, giving star Denzel Washington another strong weekend opening.
Based on the 1980s television show of the same name, "The Equalizer" features Mr. Washington as a vigilante who comes out of retirement to help save a young woman in trouble with the Russian mob. The action movie was directed by Antoine Fuqua, who teamed with Mr. Washington on his Oscar-winning role in 2001's "Training Day."
Holdover "The Maze Runner," from Twentieth Century Fox, landed in second place, grossing $17.5 million for a two-week total of $58 million.
Trailing close behind was the weekend's other new release, "The Boxtrolls," which arrived in third place with $17.3 million. It is a company best for the Laika animation studio that made the family film; its most successful movie to date, "Coraline" opened to $16.8 million in 2009 and went on to gross $75.3 million. Laika is owned by Nike Inc. Chairman Phil Knight. "The Boxtrolls" features the voices of Ben Kingsley and Elle Fanning in a story about an orphan raised by trash-collecting trolls. It was distributed by Focus Features, a specialty division of Comcast Corp.'s Universal Pictures.
"The Boxtrolls" was the first animated film to hit theaters since July's "Planes: Fire and Rescue," and won't face competition again from family fare until "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day" is released on Oct. 10.
The opening performance of "The Equalizer" puts the film in the territory of 2012's "Safe House," which also starred Mr. Washington and opened to $40.2 million before grossing $126.4 million. "The Equalizer," co-financed by Village Roadshow Pictures with a budget of $55 million, was distributed by Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures.
Audiences gave the film an A- grade, according to the CinemaScore market research firm. "The Boxtrolls" received a B+.
Of last week's new releases, "This Is Where I Leave You," with Tina Fey and Jason Bateman, held on strongest, falling 39% for a weekend gross of $7 million. Liam Neeson's thriller "A Walk Among the Tombstones" appears to have been hurt by the arrival of Mr. Washington's latest action-hero turn; it plummeted 67% to gross $4.2 million in seventh place.
Fox's parent company, 21st Century Fox, was until mid-2013 part of the same company as The Wall Street Journal.
