<title:>Business
New Hollywood Studio Gets a Chinese Engine; Robinov Startup Gets $200 Million From Fosun, Looks to China for Growth
<Date:>24 September 2014
<Content:>
Hollywood studios have spent more than a decade working their way into China past government quotas, censors, and ever-changing regulations. Now one of China's largest conglomerates has found its way into Hollywood through simpler means: an enormous check.
Fosun Group is investing about $200 million in Studio 8, a startup run by former Warner Bros. film chief Jeff Robinov, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The studio's movies will be distributed by Sony Corp.'s Sony Pictures Entertainment,
Fosun had said back in June that it would team up with Studio 8, but the size of the investment wasn't disclosed. The deal marks the largest investment to date by a Chinese company in American film production.
In their first interview discussing the company, Mr. Robinov and Fosun chairman Guo Guangchang declined to discuss the financing of Studio 8. They said they saw their partnership as an opportunity to design an American company while keeping in mind the fast-growing Chinese box office, currently No. 2 in the world and expected to soon become No. 1.
"Hollywood stands at the peak of the global entertainment industry, but everybody should be looking at China for growth in the future," said Mr. Guo before a party on the Sony lot Tuesday night introducing him to Hollywood.
Sony is investing an additional $50 million into Studio 8, which is also finalizing a credit facility of at least $300 million, said the people familiar with the matter.
Mr. Robinov said he intends to make movies at different budget levels aimed at the global market. Studio 8 has a five-year deal that calls for Sony to release 24 of its productions. Its first release will likely hit theaters in 2016.
With Studio 8, Fosun is making one of Hollywood's riskiest bets: Backing a company that will develop a new slate of films with no intellectual property to adapt and no library of older titles to produce stable cash flow. The company's success will rest entirely on its ability to quickly develop and produce movies appealing to world-wide audiences that have flocked to movies like "The Avengers" and the fourth "Transformers," but without having any superhero comics to adapt or prior hits from which it can make sequels.
"Entrepreneurship is always hard, but¡KI fully trust the team Jeff has assembled," said Mr. Guo.
Mr. Robinov is respected in Hollywood, particularly for the filmmaker relationships he developed during his 16 year-run as an executive at Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros.
"The kind of global, muscular movies Jeff has been making are the kind of movies we want," said Sony movie chief Amy Pascal, citing several of Mr. Robinov's biggest hits at Warner, including "Inception," "Gravity," and "The Hangover," all of which were original ideas.
"I do have a very solid sense of what can work in the marketplace... and cut through some of the clutter," said Mr. Robinov. "The trick for us is to take movies that are commercial, but somehow feel different."
But others have struggled with the same model Studio 8 is pursuing.
Soon after DreamWorks SKG was relaunched by Steven Spielberg and former Universal Pictures chairman Stacey Snider in 2009, it fell into a financial hole after it released several high-profile flops. It still hasn't found its footing.
Sony, like most studios, is cutting back on internal production. This deal gives it more movies to release through its world-wide distribution and marketing operation, which carries a sizable overhead. Sony will get between 8% and 10% of the revenue generated by Studio 8 movies, according to knowledgeable people, on the low end of what is typical for such arrangements in Hollywood.
Fosun, which has compared itself to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, has insurance assets at its core but has also put money into banking, real estate and mines and recently made an unsuccessful run at Forbes magazine.
Its only other significant entertainment investment is a 21% stake in Bona Film Group, a Chinese distributor. Bona won't necessarily release Studio 8 movies, Mr. Guo said, and Fosun won't necessarily be able to get the pictures into one of China's 34 allotted annual slots for foreign movies that want to receive up to 25% of box office revenue, as opposed to a small flat fee. However, the relationship could provide advantages.
"Because of our support, they will be a big success in China," predicted Mr. Guo.
Chinese companies are aiming to boost their own filmmaking skills. While the country's consumers appear to have a voracious appetite for movies, its domestic productions haven't found global success.
"What better way to learn from Hollywood than to buy into it?" said Matthew Alderson, the head of law firm Harris & Mourre LLC's Chinese media practice.
Investments in movies can also be good branding exercises for Chinese companies looking to expand overseas, said Lora Chen, president at California-based consultancy China Media Consulting.
Chinese entertainment company Huayi Brothers Media Corp., which at one point planned to invest in Studio 8, recently said it would spend $130 million to create a U.S. subsidiary that will produce and distribute movies and television shows.
Chinese conglomerate Dalian Wanda Group Corp., which owns U.S. theater chain AMC Entertainment Group, is setting up a base for entertainment investments as part of a $1.2 billion real-estate development in Los Angeles.
Mr. Robinov left Warner last year after he lost a three-way race to become the film and television studio's chief executive and had a falling out with Kevin Tsujihara, who got the job in his stead.
Even before finalizing financial arrangements for Studio 8, he had been looking to re-establish his position as one of Hollywood's premier moguls.
"Jeff has been meeting with a bunch of agents, producers and talent to say, 'I'm in business and want to be the patriarch of your movies,'" said one talent agent.
