<title:>World
Japan¡¦s Recruit Poised for M&A Splash Overseas; President Says Staffing Company Likely to Buy Marketing Media Firm
<Date:>23 October 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XAs Japan¡¦s population shrinks, many firms are seeking further growth overseas through mergers and acquisitions. Poised for its next big deal after successfully relisting its shares just a week ago, Recruit Holdings Co. is no exception.
The listing will help the classified advertisement and human resources company ramp up acquisitions to become the world¡¦s biggest player in the staffing business by 2020, the company¡¦s president predicted, citing an investment capacity of about $6.5 billion in the next three to five years.
Masumi Minegishi said Recruit will likely go through with full-scale acquisitions of marketing media companies ¡§in the not-so-distant future.¡¨
Shares of Tokyo-based Recruit, which has a market capitalization of $18 billion that rivals blue-chip firms such as Sony Corp. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., have risen 18% since its IPO in part due to growing expectations for its next M&A steps.
Mr. Minegishi said he is well aware of the mixed feelings of hope and concern that investors have over what the company does next in terms of acquisitions. ¡§We¡¦ve seen a lot of failures in acquisitions made by Japanese companies and some of them pay too much for a target,¡¨ Mr. Minegishi, who took the helm of the company in 2012, told The Wall Street Journal in an interview Thursday. But ¡§we¡¦ve been successful in past deals,¡¨ the 50-year-old chief said, citing its two-step M&A approach, in which the Japanese company first makes a smaller investment in a company before deciding whether to make a full-scale acquisition.
Founded in 1960, Recruit started as an employment advertising agency for university newspapers. It expanded rapidly in the era of Japan¡¦s explosive economic growth of the 1980s, launching publishing enterprises that included a magazine for women looking to change jobs. Despite a bribery scandal and an insider-trading case involving the IPO of a Recruit subsidiary in 1988, Recruit has gained a unique position in the industry as a conglomerate that runs a major staffing firm and a diversified advertising publication business.
Despite its commanding presence throughout Japan, Recruit is a relative newcomer in the world of M&As, largely picking up smaller companies such as U.S. staffing firm CSI Companies in 2010. But in the last four years, it has ramped up its investments overseas, including its acquisitions of U.S.-based Staffmark Holdings and Advantage Resourcing for a combined total of about $700 million and its $1 billion purchase of U.S. job-search website Indeed.com.
¡§We are constantly eyeing deals globally and have more than 50 potential targets on our list,¡¨ Mr. Minegishi said. ¡§Our M&A team¡¦s skills of sourcing (acquisitions) are excellent and it often happens that we have already contacted companies by the time investment banks pitch us deals.¡¨
Mr. Minegishi said Recruit won¡¦t just consider making a big acquisition in the staffing business but also online sales promotion firms in the travel, housing and restaurant sectors.
Recruit has made a minority investment in several online services, including U.K. Hotspring Ventures Ltd.¡X-a web operator that provides access to health and beauty treatments with listings for spas and salons.
Megumi Fujikawa contributed to this article.
