<title:>Tech
Angry Birds Maker Rovio to Cut up to 130 Jobs in Finland; Games Maker to Simplify Organization Around Areas of Growth Potential
<Date:>2 October 2014
<Content:>
STOCKHOLM¡X¡§Angry Birds¡¨ maker Rovio Entertainment Ltd. admitted Thursday to counting its chickens before they were hatched.
The Finnish games company, which shot to fame with the online and mobile game featuring colored, flying birds, said it would eliminate 130 employees, or about 16% of its workforce, amid flattening revenue and difficulties finding fresh growth opportunities. The company said it had bulked up its staff in anticipation of stronger growth.
¡§We have been building our team on assumptions of faster growth than have materialized,¡¨ the company said in a statement.
Rovio said it plans to reduce the size of its staff in an effort to simplify its organization around its three businesses with the ¡§highest growth potential¡¨: games, media and consumer products.
It didn¡¦t say Thursday which staff would be cut, or which of its operations it would downsize, and wasn¡¦t immediately available to elaborate. Rovio had more than 800 employees as of June, up from about 500 at the end of 2012.
Rovio and the ¡§Angry Birds¡¨ game series have seen their wings clipped in recent years amid stiff competition from a new breed of mobile games developers, such as Supercell Oy and Anglo-Swedish King Digital Entertainment PLC, the maker of ¡§Candy Crush Saga.¡¨
These companies have beefed up marketing expenses to the point that it is hard for companies with smaller balance sheets to break through. King Digital, for instance, last year spent considerably more marketing money to acquire and retain users than Rovio¡¦s annual sales.
King¡¦s revenue last year was $1.9 billion and the company says it commits a quarter of revenue to marketing, around half a billion last year. Rovio¡¦s revenue, meanwhile, was $197 million, which means that King spent more than twice Rovio¡¦s revenue on marketing alone.
Rovio has invested heavily into an ¡§Angry Birds¡¨-themed movie, set to hit the big screens in 2016. Starring Peter Dinklage from Game of Thrones and Jason Sudeikis, the project is Rovio¡¦s largest-ever investment and will be distributed by Sony Pictures.
The staff cuts follow a decision in August to replace Chief Executive Mikael Hed, the son of Rovio¡¦s chairman Kaj Hed and a major shareholder in the company, who will step down from his position as of January next year.
Mr. Hed, who will be succeeded by Nokia Corp. veteran Pekka Rantala, has attempted to overhaul Rovio¡¦s games revenue model, making downloads free and charging users for purchases made when in the game.
Recent releases, however, haven¡¦t made much of an impact and Mr. Hed admitted in an earlier interview that his efforts to turn the company around have taken longer than anticipated.
Last year, the closely held company saw revenue flattening significantly compared with its recent years of strong growth, as it booked £á156 million ($197 million) in revenue, from £á152.2 million in the previous year. Net profit, meanwhile, more than halved to £á26.9 million.
Last month, Rovio released the latest game in the Angry Birds¡¦ franchise, a free-to-play slingshot game called Stella, largely aimed at a female audience. Although it was initially downloaded in large numbers, Stella failed to make much money and isn¡¦t among the hundred best-grossing mobile apps in the U.S. on either Google Inc.¡¦s Play Store or Apple Inc.¡¦s App Store.
Stella¡¦s dismal financial performance follows several recent flops from the company, including ¡§Angry Birds Epic,¡¨ a role-playing game; and ¡§Angry Birds GO!,¡¨ a racing game¡Xboth of which had millions of installs and received good reviews. But they failed to nail the free-to-play model that has proved so profitable for some of Rovio¡¦s peers.
The company has also tried to depart from the Angry Birds brand, with games such as Amazing Alex, a Rube Goldberg device-building game; and Tiny Thief, a stealth-based puzzle game; neither saw much commercial success.
Amid the company¡¦s paltry performance, a number of executives have left the company, including the company¡¦s former chief operating officer, and the executive in charge of game development. Tuomas Erikoinen, who created the original artwork for Angry Birds and designed its first characters, left the company to form another game developer in 2012.
