<title:>Reuters Entertainment News Summary
<Date:>15 October 2014
<Content:>
Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs.
Wal-Mart to offer digital movie access to customers
Wal-Mart Stores Inc is launching a new service for customers to access digital copies of movies they buy at its stores and website across all platforms. The world's largest retailer, along with VUDU, rolled out a beta version of the service, InstaWatch, in collaboration with seven movie studios. These include DreamWorks Home Entertainment, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Warner Home Video and Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment.
Kesha accuses pop producer of abuse in dueling lawsuits
Pop singer Kesha and music producer Dr. Luke unleashed dueling lawsuits on Tuesday trading accusations of abuse and extortion as the "Die Young" singer says she wants out of her record contract with the hit-making producer. Kesha, 27, whose legal name is Kesha Sebert, has accused Dr. Luke in a civil lawsuit filed in Los Angeles Superior Court of sexual, physical, verbal and emotional abuse.
U2's Bono says 'Oops, sorry' for iTunes album download
U2 lead singer Bono apologized on Wednesday to iTunes users who objected to receiving an automatic download of the Irish rock group's latest album in September in conjunction with the launch of new Apple iPhones. The release of the band's 11-track "Songs of Innocence" free into an estimated 500 million iTunes accounts was a classic case of a publicity stunt backfiring, when thousands of users complained they did not want the album and that it took up precious storage space.
'Friends' will 'be there for you' in Netflix streaming deal
"Friends" may have wrapped up ten years ago, but Ross, Chandler, Monica, Rachel, Phoebe and Joey will appear on Netflix beginning in January, Warner Bros. TV and the online Internet-streaming service said on Wednesday. All 236 episodes of the popular NBC 10-season series, one of the most-watched U.S. shows of all time, will be available for streaming on the subscription service beginning Jan. 1, 2015.
Michael Jackson tops Forbes list of highest-earning dead celebrities
Five years after his death, singer Michael Jackson is generating a fortune and is the top-earning dead celebrity, raking in an estimated $140 million in the past year for his estate, Forbes said on Wednesday. He earned more than twice as much as singer Elvis Presley, who died in 1977 and came in second with $55 million, and three times more than cartoonist and Peanuts comic strip creator Charles Schulz, who took third place with $40 million.
Jay Leno signs deal to host new car series for CNBC
Comedian Jay Leno, who was the host of NBC's "Tonight Show" for more than 20 years, will return to television next year to host a new series about cars, the cable network CNBC said on Wednesday. The show, tentatively titled "Jay Leno's Garage," will be based on his Emmy Award-winning Web series. Leno will share his love of cars on the new series, which will premiere in 2015.
A Minute With: Laverne Cox on 'Orange' and transgender activism
As sassy stylist Sophia Burset on Netflix's women's prison drama "Orange Is the New Black," actress Laverne Cox has marked a milestone in the portrayal of transgender characters and was the first transgender actress to land an acting Emmy nomination. Now Cox is lending her voice to "The T Word," airing on Viacom Inc's youth-orientated MTV and Logo TV on Friday, a documentary profiling young transgender kids who transitioned in their teen years.
Michael Keaton flies high as has-been actor in 'Birdman'
Michael Keaton hung up his "Batman" cape more than two decades ago, but the versatile actor soared to new heights with a high-octane performance as a has-been trying to revive his career in comedy-drama and early Oscar favorite "Birdman." In the film by Mexican director and Academy Award-nominee Alejandro Gonzalez I?arritu ("21 Grams," "Babel"), which opens in U.S. theaters on Friday, Keaton plays actor Riggan Thomson, who like himself found fame playing the superhero in an action franchise he left years ago.
DC superheroes, Lego and Harry Potter spin-off get new Warner Bros. films
The superheroes of DC Comics will battle the Marvel heroes at the box office, as Warner Bros. confirmed plans for upcoming films on Wednesday that include new installments of "The Lego Movie" franchise and expansions of the "Harry Potter" world. Masked hero Batman will get a starring role with Ben Affleck's portrayal in Zack Snyder's anticipated 2016 release of "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice." Affleck will reprise the role for Snyder's 2017's "Justice League Part One" with Henry Cavill returning as Superman and Amy Adams as Lois Lane. Snyder will also direct "Justice League Part Two" for release in 2019.
Day of the Dead comes alive in colorful Mexican tale 'Book of Life'
Growing up in the Mexican border town of Tijuana, animator Jorge Gutierrez waited to see his people appear in Hollywood's animated fare. "I never saw myself or my family or my friends up on the screen in animation," Gutierrez said. "I kept waiting for the Latina princess to show up, and she never did." 
Released: 2014-10-15T21:59:31.000Z
