<title:>Business
Why Taylor Swift and One Direction Play for Peanuts; At iHeartRadio Festival This Weekend, Artists Look to Promote New Songs
<Date:>19 September 2014
<Content:>
The iHeartRadio Music Festival is expected to draw at least 20,000 fans to Las Vegas this weekend, and millions of viewers when it is streamed online and later broadcast on TV¡Xbut it won't be much of a payday for the headliners, including Taylor Swift and One Direction.
That's because most artists are willing to perform for next to nothing. They choose to forgo a big paycheck in exchange for a media blitz, hoping that the radio giant that runs the festival, iHeartMedia Inc.¡Xknown until this week as Clear Channel¡Xwill keep playing their songs on its 800-plus stations.
DJ Steve Aoki canceled three European shows, giving up about $500,000, in order to perform his song "Born to Get Wild" with the artist Will.i.am at the festival, according to a person familiar with the matter. IHeartMedia is paying Mr. Aoki a small fee to help with his expenses, but the amount doesn't come close to covering his travel costs, this person said.
Nearly a decade after the major record companies settled charges that they violated federal payola laws¡Xwhich forbid radio stations from playing songs in exchange for payment without disclosing the arrangement on the airwaves¡Xanother, legal method has largely replaced yesterday's pay-for-airplay schemes. One veteran promoter calls it "showola."
Artists have long played for peanuts at radio stations' holiday shows and summer jams to promote their records. But these cut-rate appearances have now become the main currency that record labels and promoters use to convince radio programmers to play their songs. That is, in part, because they have little else of value to offer, as the music industry's promotion budgets have shriveled.
The appearances themselves are becoming more valuable too, as the concert business booms. For example, Ms. Swift grossed an average of $2.2 million per show over the past 36 months, while boy band One Direction grossed an average of $2.6 million, according to Pollstar.
Radio broadcasters, meantime, are becoming increasingly dependent on the extra exposure and income from their live¡Xand now often televised¡Xevents, as radio listeners are increasingly distracted by everything from mobile games to social media, tuning into radio for shorter blocks of time.
In accordance with federal law, iHeartMedia doesn't promise artists or labels airplay in exchange for their appearances. But artists and record labels fear a drop in airtime if they don't agree to perform, managers and label executives say. Artist managers say that they can typically make excuses to get a client out of an obligation with a broadcaster or station once or twice, but declining a third time means risking the possibility that the broadcaster might "bury" the artist's next single in overnight airplay, one manager said.
Many artists and their labels, though, fight for the chance to appear in such shows at a discount while promoting new songs¡Xespecially new televised shows such as the iHeartRadio Music Awards, which drew more than five million viewers for its debut in May.
The televised events offer national exposure that further augments the record and ticket sales generated by that radio play. IHeartMedia has broadcast its holiday Jingle Ball and summer Pool Party events on the CW Network; it plans to televise its second annual country music festival next year as well.
IHeartMedia typically offers to pay for artists' travel expenses to its events, but even that sum is usually a negotiation. iHeartMedia this year offered one headlining act $150,000 to get to the iHeartRadio festival, for example, but the act required double that sum to cover its costs, according to a person familiar with the matter. In the end, the act had its record label negotiate with iHeartMedia so that the label could kick in some of the difference, this person said.
To increase their leverage in the showola economy, some independent radio promoters have started managing artists on the side, so that they can broker performance deals directly with radio stations. Los Angeles magazine Hits, for example, which has a radio promotion arm, currently manages acts including Pentatonix, Airborne Toxic Event and Walk off the Earth. By offering radio stations performances by those artists, Hits can increase its pull when promoting other artists' records to those stations.
Even amid declining music sales, radio has remained a key way for musicians to amass fans, sell concert tickets and merchandise and build brands that help them land marketing deals and corporate sponsors. In the U.S., radio broadcasters have never paid royalties to most performers on airplay, due to a quirk in copyright law, but they did pay hundreds of millions in royalties last year to music publishers and the artists who wrote the songs. IHeartMedia also pays both performers and songwriters digital royalties to play their music on its Internet service, iHeartRadio.
Until recently, electronic music artists were generally unconcerned with making radio-friendly songs, since their main source of income had always been live gigs. But now most of the world's top DJs have started adding catchy melodies and words over their dance beats to get radio play, competing with each other for exposure to drive their live businesses.
Calvin Harris frequently performs or appears at radio events to promote his music, and his competitors are being forced to follow suit, electronic-music artist managers said. A representative for Mr. Harris didn't respond to a request for comment.
Showola illustrates how the new rules governing radio promotion have helped the biggest record companies save money, but haven't diminished their control over the airwaves. The three major labels, Vivendi A's Univeral Music Group, Sony Corp.'s Sony Music Entertainment and Access Industries' Warner Music Group, together distributed all but one of the top 40 singles this week.
About a decade ago, all three companies settled lawsuits brought by New York's then-attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who alleged that they participated in pay-to-play schemes. As part of the settlements, the labels each agreed to install a compliance officer that would vet all promotion expenses and make sure both staff and contractors adhered to a litany of new rules while wining and dining radio employees.
But these labels have retained their leverage with radio, in part because they control the bulk of the acts that headline radio's shows and can help foot their appearance costs.
"You could make a case that things were much better in days of payola," said one artist manager. "Anybody could get on the radio for couple hundred bucks."
