<title:>News
Corporate Watch: News Digest
<Date:>9 October 2014
<Content:>
Sony
Company Nearer to Shipping
Videogame Consoles in China
Sony Corp. moved a step closer to shipping videogame consoles in China, as it seeks to join Microsoft Corp. in tapping a market where devices such as PlayStations and Xboxes have long been banned.
According to a filing, a factory in Shanghai・s free-trade zone affiliated with the Japanese electronics company would start packaging consoles in December. The filing said the facility could package 200,000 consoles a year.
A spokesman for Sony said the 200,000 figure doesn・t represent an actual business plan, adding its operation will be based on other factors such as the number of software titles it can sell. He declined to comment further on Sony・s plans.
The filing was an environmental assessment posted by a Sony local partner on the official website of the free-trade zone. It didn・t specify the type of console that would be shipped.
Sony signed a deal earlier this year with Shanghai Oriental Pearl Group Co. to make and sell PlayStation game consoles in China. The move came after the Chinese government in September lifted a 14-year ban on the sale of videogame consoles in the country. Microsoft began selling its Xbox One through the free-trade zone late last month. China has long kept a tight leash on the videogame industry out of concern about violent content. The Xbox One titles approved for sale don・t include violent games such as the ：Halo； and ：Call of Duty； titles.
The filing was reported by local media in August and on Thursday by Bloomberg News.
Gillian Wong and
Foxconn Technology
Workers at Chinese Plant Strike for Increase in Pay
About 1,000 workers at a Foxconn Technology Co. plant in southwest China assembling printers and computers for companies including Hewlett-Packard Co. went on strike for several hours this week demanding higher pay.
The Taiwan-based company, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., said the workers walked off the job for four hours Wednesday at its production site in Chongqing. About 20 workers went on strike Thursday morning, but further details on that stoppage weren・t available.
Foxconn is working with its labor union and workers to resolve the dispute, the company said Thursdayin a statement. The company said the strikes didn・t disrupt production.
Management ：continuously increased production volumes, and even required individual workers to take on tasks that used to require two workers to handle. The increase in workload wasn・t compensated,； said a worker who declined to be named. He said he participated in the strike.
：Some workers are not happy because the company [Foxconn] has reduced overtime hours, a key component of their salaries,； after H-P cut orders, said a Foxconn official who declined to be named. Workers also demanded the resignation of the factory manager, he said. Also, the company had tried to lay off some workers without paying severance, the official added.
Foxconn filed a complaint with the local police, he said. The reason for the complaint wasn・t clear.
On the Weibo social-media service, users distributed images that appeared show hundreds of workers gathered outside the Chongqing facility Wednesday, waving protest banners as police officers looked on. The police presence at the factory continued Thursday, according to the worker.
A Chongqing police spokeswoman, however, said she wasn・t aware of the strike.
Foxconn employs about 30,000 workers at its Chongqing site. The company has more than one million workers in China and is a major supplier to Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp.
The strike came after H-P said earlier this month it planned to separate its personal-computer and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations as it faces intensifying competition from China・s Lenovo Group Ltd. An H-P representative in Asia didn・t have an immediate comment.
Lorraine Luk and
PepsiCo
Company Raises Forecast
PepsiCo Inc. reported better-than-expected third-quarter results despite continued volatility in emerging markets and sluggish consumer demand in developed markets.
Shares of Pepsi, up 18% over the past year, were up 33 cents at $94.27 on Thursday afternoon. The snacks and beverage maker also raised its earnings view for the year, based on its results for the first three quarters. The company now expects core per-share earnings growth of 9%, up from its prior view of 8% growth.
Pepsi has relied on its snack business lately to offset the impact of weaker demand for soda. Sales of diet soda are declining in the U.S., while concerns about soft drink consumption and obesity are rising. U.S. consumption of diet soda fell 6.3% last year while regular soda fell 1.7%, according to Beverage Digest.
Carbonated-soft-drink volume in the key North American market declined 1.5% in the third quarter, Pepsi said.
The company this month is launching its newest soft drink, a mid-calorie soda called Pepsi True, which will be sold exclusively through Amazon.com Inc.
Chairman and Chief Executive Indra Nooyi said the company still faces a challenging macroeconomic environment, including heightened volatility in emerging markets and weak demand in advanced markets.
Pepsi has batted away calls from activist investor Nelson Peltz・s Trian Fund Management LP to break up the company・s snack and beverages businesses, saying it is stronger with both together. PepsiCo has been losing market share to chief drinks rival Coca-Cola Co. for several years in the U.S. and abroad.
For the period ended Sept. 6, Pepsi reported a profit of $2.01 billion, up from $1.92 billion a year earlier. On a per-share basis, earnings rose to $1.32 from $1.23. Excluding restructuring and impairment charges and other items, earnings were $1.36 a share. Revenue edged up 1.8% to $17.22 billion.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had projected earnings of $1.29 a share and revenue of $17.07 billion.
Gross margin expanded to 53.6% from 53%.
In its Americas foods business, Frito-Lay North America sales rose 3%. Latin America foods sales climbed 6%, though Quaker Foods North America sales fell 3% on volume declines.
The company・s Americas beverages unit posted flat sales of $5.38 billion, while European revenue fell 1% to $3.76 billion.
Erin McCarthy
