<title:>Reuters Entertainment News Summary
<Date:>8 October 2014
<Content:>
Following is a summary of current entertainment news briefs.
Jennifer Lawrence says photo hacking is sex crime: magazine
Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence, one of dozens of actresses, models and celebrities whose intimate images have been posted online, spoke about the photo hacking scandal for the first time on Tuesday, saying it is a crime and sexual violation. In an interview with Vanity Fair magazine, Lawrence, 24, said she was frightened after the photos were released last month and worried about the impact it would have on her career.
Vienna Philharmonic archives showing Nazi ties to get new home
The Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, which acknowledged decades after the fact that many of its players had been Nazi party members, will use a $1 million grant to digitalize and find a new home for its archives, it was announced on Wednesday. The announcement by the orchestra's management was made in Stockholm where the orchestra was to officially receive the grant from the Birgit Nilsson Foundation. The foundation is endowed by the late Swedish dramatic soprano and is said to be the "most generous prize in the world of classical music".
A Minute With: Hugh Grant on Hollywood, hacking and celebrity
Actor Hugh Grant, who became the poster boy for the charming British fop in romantic comedies such as "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill," is delighted not to be part of Hollywood anymore. Grant channels his feelings in his latest film, "The Rewrite," as Keith, a washed up screenwriter who moves to a small New York town to give a college course on the sometimes cynical and occasionally realistic perils of Hollywood. The film is out in UK theaters on Wednesday.
Country music's Hunter Hayes goes "pop-western" for Britain
Hunter Hayes's blend of country infused with a dash of rock has made him a four-time Grammy nominee and multi-platinum seller in the United States, but for his British launch his pop credentials are being brought to the fore. The 23-year-old Louisiana-born Hayes has been an entertainer since early boyhood - he performed for U.S. President Bill Clinton on the White House lawn at the age of seven. His most successful single, "Wanted", sold more than 3.5 million copies in the United States, making him the youngest male act to top the Billboard Hot Country songs chart.
'Ghostbusters' to be remade with 'hilarious women': Feig
If there is something strange in the neighborhood, who are you going to call? 'Hilarious women,' quipped filmmaker Paul Feig. "Bridesmaids" filmmaker Feig said on Wednesday he is working on a new "Ghostbusters" film for Sony Pictures and co-writing the movie.
MOMA hails Henri Matisse with 'Cut-Outs' exhibition
Blue figures swim around walls, dancers prance in a circle and flowers sprout on a huge canvas in an exhibition of the cut-out works of French artist Henri Matisse that opens next week. The show, "Henri Matisse: the Cut-Outs," which runs from Oct. 12 through Feb. 8 at the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA), includes 100 works from private and public collections, drawings, textiles and stained glass from the final years of the renowned artist, who died in 1954 aged 84.
Study of slavery makes shortlist for Samuel Johnson book prize
A book that traces the history of slavery over four centuries is among six books shortlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction, one of the world's richest non-fiction awards. Greg Grandin's "The Empire of Necessity", a history of slavery from the early 16th century until the middle of the 19th century, was among the works that made the short list announced on Thursday.
'The Overnighters' shows dark side of North Dakota oil boom
Desperate for a fresh start, unemployed workers from all over the world have converged on North Dakota's burgeoning oil patch, seeking six-figure salaries and the rewards of living in the fastest-growing economy in the nation. But award-winning documentary "The Overnighters," opening in New York on Friday before expanding nationally, shows the bleak side of that American Dream and the complex efforts of one man to be a Good Samaritan.
WWII author Rick Atkinson says faces learning curve for next project
Author Rick Atkinson, who won a Pulitzer Prize for a best-selling World War Two history, said on Wednesday he was facing a steep learning curve for his next project on the American Revolution. After 15 years of researching and writing about World War Two, Atkinson said the 1775-1781 war that freed 13 American colonies from Britain and created the United States was a brand new subject.
Blake Shelton tops Billboard 200; Prince lands two albums in top 10
Country music artists Blake Shelton and Lady Antebellum raced to the top of the weekly U.S. Billboard 200 chart on Wednesday, while R&B veteran Prince scored two new debuts in the top 10. Shelton, who is also a judge on NBC's talent show "The Voice," topped the chart with "Bringing Back the Sunshine," which sold 101,000 copies in its first week, according to sales figures compiled by Nielsen SoundScan. 
Released: 2014-10-9T05:58:30.000Z
