<title:>Asia
What's News¡X
<Date:>18 September 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
Sony is stepping up its efforts to turn its game division into a hub for entertainment services, as the company faces deep losses in its electronics business.
China's central bank made another surprise move to ease monetary policy with a cut in short-term borrowing costs for banks.
Hyundai outbid Samsung with a $10.19 billion offer for land in Seoul's posh Gangnam district, hurting the auto maker's shares, which closed down 9.2%.
News Corp's CEO urged Brussels to throw out an EU settlement with Google, calling the search engine a "platform for piracy."
Bank of Communications kicked off a long-awaited capital-raising spree in the global debt markets as China's lenders grapple with souring loans and seek to bolster their capital buffers.
The price of polished diamonds declined for a sixth consecutive month in August, and the downturn has been most pronounced in larger diamonds.
A swath of early investors in Alibaba will be able to sell more than $8 billion of shares on the day the company goes public, which is influencing how bankers price the offering.
Weststar Aviation Services, a helicopter transport firm partly owned by KKR, is seeking to raise up to $500 million from an initial public offering in Malaysia.
Bayer plans to seek an IPO for its plastics business and focus on the company's more profitable life-sciences operations.
Senior executives from Maersk and Mediterranean Shipping urged U.S. regulators to swiftly approve their joint venture, which aims to move about a third of global cargo across the busiest ocean trade routes.
World-Wide
Fiji's election was thrown into confusion as a united opposition said it has evidence of fraud. Provisional results gave Rear Adm. Voreqe Bainimarama's party a convincing lead.
Islamic State released a video showing a British man who identified himself as a journalist and said he is a prisoner of the extremists.
Hackers linked to China's government broke into computer networks of private transportation companies working for the U.S. military 20 times in one year, Senate investigators said.
Unidentified men attacked BBC journalists who were investigating reports of Russian servicemen being killed near the border with Ukraine, the broadcaster said.
