<title:>Markets
Asian Morning Briefing: U.S. Stocks Hit New Highs
<Date:>18 September 2014
<Content:>
MARKETS AT A GLANCE
(Data as of approximately 5 p.m. ET)
SNAPSHOT
U.S. stocks rose, with the Dow industrials and S&P 500 hitting all-time highs, on relief over the latest Fed statement. The British pound hit a two-week high against the dollar ahead of the Scottish independence vote results. Treasurys finished mostly lower and the dollar hit a six-year high against the yen on worries over higher U.S. interest rates. Rate fears also caused gold futures to extend losses. Oil prices fell on the dollar's strength and as ample supplies weighed.
OPENING CALL
Big changes are afoot for the index that underlies the $5.9 billion iShares China Large-Cap ETF. At the close of trading Friday, the ETF will transition to an index of 50 Hong-Kong listed stocks from 25. Rebecca Cheong, head of Americas equity derivatives strategy at UBS breaks down the differences, which are major. Financials' weighting in the index will fall by 9.4%, while consumer discretionary, utilities and industrials will roughly make up the difference, she says.
EQUITIES
The Dow industrials and S&P 500 rallied to all-time highs as investors were heartened by signals from the Federal Reserve that it remains on a measured course to eventually raise interest rates.
"If the pace of inflation remains contained, it is likely that the Fed will increase rates in a slow and methodical manner, which in our view presents a favorable backdrop for equities," said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. An improving economy should lead to earnings growth and further stock gains this year, he said.
Financial stocks led the S&P 500 higher, with the sector posting a 1.1% gain.
"There's a relief rally here," said Steven Rosen, head of single-stock and ETF volatility trading at Soci?t? G?n?rale.
Investors also parsed mixed economic reports. Jobless claims fell by 36,000 to 280,000 in the week ended Sept. 13, well below the 305,000 level of claims expected by economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal. The decline in claims marked the biggest drop in nearly two years.
Meanwhile, U.S. home construction dropped sharply in August. Housing starts fell 14.4% from July to an annual rate of 956,000 units, missing expectations for a 5.5% decline. Building permits also logged a bigger-than-expected decline, falling 5.6% in August.
Investors are also looking ahead to Alibaba Group Holding's initial public offering on Friday. Early investors will be able to sell more than $8 billion of shares, which is affecting how the offering is being priced.
In other corporate news, Rite Aid reported better-than-expected earnings in the second quarter, but lowered its outlook for the full year. Shares dropped nearly 19%.
ConAgra Foods shares rose 4.6% after the food company's adjusted per-share earnings beat expectations.
In Asian trading Thursday, stocks rose to an eight-month high in Tokyo but retreated in Hong Kong, with the prospect of higher U.S. interest rates and a weak Chinese property market in focus.
FOREX
The pound climbed to a two-week high against the dollar, as Scots headed to the polls to vote on separating from the U.K.
Most pre-election polls showed the pro-U.K. campaign narrowly in the lead despite a late surge by pro-independence voters last weekend. Most investors believe a vote against independence would benefit the pound. Although the currency fell by more than 6% from its July highs as the momentum for a referendum gathered, the U.K. economy has surged this year and investors expect the Bank of England to increase rates in 2015.
"The market is getting increasingly aggressive in the belief that we see a 'No' vote tonight," said John Hardy, head of FX strategy at Saxo Bank, in a note to investors.
Meanwhile, the dollar rose to a new six-year high against the yen as investors continued to pile into the U.S. currency on expectations that the Federal Reserve is moving closer to raising interest rates.
BONDS
Yields on shorter-dated U.S. government bonds climbed to the highest levels in more than three years as worries over higher interest rates drove investors to cut holdings for a second day.
"The Federal Reserve is removing the punchbowl and it is time to be defensive" in your bond portfolio, said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Fla., which manages $2.25 billion in assets. "The bond market needs to adjust, which means higher yields."
Higher interest rates make newly sold bonds more attractive to buy, causing the value of existing bond prices to fall.
The bond market's selling over the past session has been led by shorter-dated notes. These yields have risen at a faster pace compared with longer-dated bonds since Fed officials on Wednesday afternoon forecast official rates to be at a higher level for the next two years compared with their projections in June.
Upbeat labor-market data added to anxiety. Initial claims for unemployment benefits posted the largest drop in nearly two years, a sign improvement in the labor market gained traction.
COMMODITIES
Oil futures fell as a strong dollar and higher U.S. supplies weighed on prices.
"The U.S. dollar seems to be the theme of the day," said Tim Evans, an analyst at Citi Futures Perspective. He summarized the market sentiment as: "Sell every commodity that you own, because the U.S. dollar strength is here to stay."
Gold prices extended their losses on as expectations of higher interest rates from the Federal Reserve prompted some investors to cut back holdings of the store of value.
"While there is no definitive calendar date for an interest-rate rise, there was a clear statement to normalize policy," traders at TD Securities said in a note to clients.
TODAY'S HEADLINES
Alibaba IPO Priced at $68 a Share, Top of Range
Alibaba Group Holding's shares are said to have priced at $68 in what is expected to be one the world's largest initial public offerings ever.
Ellison to Step Aside as Oracle CEO
Oracle said its founder, Larry Ellison, will step aside as chief executive from the company he started in 1977, but will take over as chairman of the board. Two of his lieutenants, Safra Catz and Mark Hurd, will become co-CEOs.
Polls Close in Scottish Independence Vote
Voters in Scotland made a pivotal decision of whether to break up the U.K. after 307 years, in a historic referendum that pits a vision of independence against the potential economic turmoil.
Sony Plans to Turn Game Division into Hub
Faced with deep losses in its electronics business that caused its stock to plunge, Sony is stepping up efforts to turn its better-performing game division into a hub for entertainment services.
Mitsubishi Electric, Hitachi Executives Indicted
Seven executives from Japanese auto-part makers Mitsubishi Electric and Hitachi Automotive have been indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of price fixing and obstruction of justice.
U.S. Household Wealth Hits Fresh Record
Americans' wealth hit the highest level ever in the second quarter amid a rise in stock and home prices, prompting consumers to ramp up their borrowing--a development that could boost the economic recovery.
U.S. Jobless Claims Fell 36,000 Last Week
Initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 36,000 to a seasonally adjusted 280,000 in the week ended Sept. 13. That was less than the 305,000 claims forecast by economists and placed them just above the 14-year low.
Ukraine Leader Calls for More Western Military Aid
President Petro Poroshenko appealed to the U.S. to significantly expand its military assistance to Kiev and called Moscow's campaign against Ukraine "one of the most cynical acts of treachery in modern history."
Fed Takes Enforcement Action Against Santander U.S. Unit
The Federal Reserve took enforcement action against Santander's U.S. unit, saying one of the Spanish bank's subsidiaries paid a dividend without permission even though the Fed had barred it from doing so.
News Corp Says Google Is a 'Platform for Piracy'
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp weighed into the debate over a proposed EU settlement with Google --urging Brussels to throw out the settlement and calling Google a "platform for piracy."
RECENT DJ DOMINANTS
Several Veteran Traders Exit Point72 Asset Management
Keystone Pipeline Cost Expected to Double, TransCanada CEO Says
Oasis Beverages, TSG Reach Deal To Buy Pabst Brewing Co.
Boeing Faces a Future Without Fighter Jets
H.I.G. Capital Plans More Acquisitions in Brazil
TODAY'S CALENDAR
(Times in GMT, followed by country and event)
2100 SKA Aug PPI
2245 NZ Aug International Travel and Migration
0300 NZ Aug Credit card statistics
0430 JPN Jul All Industry Index
0500 JPN Aug Steel Production
0500 JPN Jul Indexes of Business Conditions - Revision
0530 JPN Aug Nationwide department store sales
0530 JPN Aug Tokyo area department store sales
0600 GER Aug PPI
0730 THA Weekly International Reserves
0800 EU Jul Euro area balance of payments
0830 UK Q2 Bank of England on UK banks external claims
1130 IND Weekly foreign exchange reserves
1230 CAN Jul Wholesale trade
1230 CAN Aug CPI
1400 US Aug Regional & State Employment & Unemployment
1400 US Aug Leading Indicators
1800 CAN Bank of Canada Weekly Financial Statistics 
