<title:>Tech
Japan Display Shares Drop 18%; Outlook Downgrade Blamed on Market Competition, Shipment Delays to Apple Inc.
<Date:>16 October 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO¡XShares of Japan Display Inc. sank 18% Thursday, just a day after it announced a much bigger downward revision to its earnings outlook than analysts had expected.
After the market closed Wednesday, Japan Display said it now predicted a loss of ?10 billion ($95 million) in the year ending in March, instead of a ?26.8 billion net profit previously expected. It blamed fierce market competition and delays of shipments to Apple Inc., whose business accounts for nearly one-third of Japan Display¡¦s revenue.
¡§The magnitude of earnings revisions was much larger than expected,¡¨ J.P. Morgan analyst Narci Chang wrote in a letter to clients. The brokerage slashed the company¡¦s price target to ?350 from ?770, putting it at underweight. ¡§We expect share price momentum to stay weak,¡¨ Ms. Chang wrote.
Shares of the world¡¦s leading display maker fell 18.22% to ?359 at the market close from the previous day. They listed at ?900 on the Tokyo exchange in March this year.
Japan Display was formed two years ago through a merger of the LCD units of Sony Corp., Hitachi Ltd. and Toshiba Corp., with the help of the government-backed Innovation Network Corporation of Japan, which owns a 35% stake.
A Japan Display official who asked not to be named said the company couldn¡¦t secure enough parts to produce displays with the quality requested by Apple. That was consistent with what analysts had been saying, noting that production of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus is more than six weeks behind schedule.
Also weighing on Japan Display¡¦s earnings was a one-time cost of ?7 billion from the planned closure of an inefficient factory in Saitama prefecture north of Tokyo.
Many investors had expected the firm to slash its earnings forecast given the severe competition, especially in the Chinese market. But they said they hadn¡¦t anticipated the scale of the cut. That is leading to uncertainty about the company¡¦s ability to accurately forecast its business outlook.
¡§Given the very low credibility of its guidance, the stock may have further downside risk,¡¨ said Jefferies equity analyst Atul Goyal, noting that Wednesday¡¦s cut was fourth since the company¡¦s initial public offering.
In its statement, the Tokyo-based manufacturer said business would be better in the second half of the fiscal year thanks to expected increases in shipments to China and other Asian markets, although that wouldn¡¦t offset the poor first half.
SMBC Nikko Securities analyst Yukihiko Shimada said, ¡§Sales projections for the second half are somewhat bullish, and may come in short.¡¨
Japan Display¡¦s setback is the latest example of the difficulties Japanese manufactures are having staying profitable in a highly volatile market, even with efforts to become more cost-efficient.
