<title:>Business
Amgen: $100 Billion Activist Target; Dan Loeb Urges Biotech Firm to Take Steps to Unlock Value
<Date:>21 October 2014
<Content:>
Another $100 billion company is on an activist investor・s chopping block.
Daniel Loeb・s Third Point LLC has taken a stake in biotechnology giant Amgen Inc. and wants it to explore breaking in two, according to a letter sent to Third Point・s investors Tuesday.
The New York hedge-fund firm said it is one of Amgen・s largest shareholders and has been engaged in constructive talks with the company, which has a market capitalization of roughly $109 billion.
：We firmly believe that the company is at an inflection point,； Third Point said in its letter.
Activist investors this year have called on a number of companies to consider breaking up, including PepsiCo Inc., eBay Inc. and Darden Restaurants Inc. They argue that businesses perform better when they are narrowly focused.
：It is well established that disparate business units generally benefit from operating separately,； Third Point said.
The firm said Amgen can unlock value by streamlining its research-and-development process and cutting its ：bloated cost structure,； but Third Point also wants Amgen・s board to consider the ：more radical； option of breaking up. Third Point suggested potentially splitting apart the company・s mature business from its faster-growing operations, an idea proposed earlier by Sanford Bernstein analyst Geoffrey Porges.
In a statement, Amgen said it ：has always appreciated the perspectives of all of its shareholders, including Third Point, and welcomes constructive input toward our common goal of enhancing shareholder value.； The company plans to update investors on its priorities and restructuring plans at an investor day next Tuesday.
Third Point said Amgen・s stock could get to $218 a share by the end of 2017 if the company completed the work on costs and R&D. But if the company went forward with a split, Third Point believes the stock could be worth $249 a share in two years.
Amgen shares rose 4.8% to close at $144.09 Tuesday, touching an all-time high in the process, after The Wall Street Journal reported that Third Point had a stake in the company. Amgen・s stock is up 150% over the past three years and 26% this year.
Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, Calif., helped pioneer the biotechnology-drugs business, but the medicines that propelled its growth are aging and some are facing the threat of low-cost competition. Robert Bradway, a former Morgan Stanley health-care investment banker, became chief executive in 2012 to help turn around the company. Last year, he orchestrated a $10.4 billion deal to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals and its blood-cancer drug, Kyprolis.
While some analysts have been disappointed by Kyprolis sales, Amgen is betting that new studies will result in additional uses that can drive more sales.
Meanwhile, the company・s laboratories have been criticized on Wall Street for failing to find new drugs. Amgen executives believe the company・s drug pipeline has turned a corner, and they・ve touted study results from three cancer drugs and two cardiovascular medicines, including a cholesterol-lowering drug that is expected to be a blockbuster seller.
Mr. Bradway in July announced plans to cut costs by closing some facilities and laying off 12% to 15% of Amgen・s employees. The company has said the cost savings are earmarked for potential sources of new growth, such as the cholesterol drug.
The stock has risen sharply since those announcements, and Third Point applauded the moves on Tuesday.
Amgen is the first new investment Third Point has disclosed since the firm raised $2.5 billion in about two weeks this August. The firm, which now has about $17.5 billion in total assets, told investors it planned to use the cash to take activist stakes in several large companies in the U.S. and abroad.
Amgen isn・t the only company Third Point has urged to explore a split. The company last year disclosed a stake in Sony Corp. and pushed the company to spin off its entertainment business.
Sony rejected Third Point・s call for a breakup and instead cut costs and made management changes within the entertainment business. In its letter Tuesday, Third Point praised those moves and said it has sold its Sony stake for a return of nearly 20%, though it said ：more urgency； is necessary to ：definitively turn around the company・s fortunes.；
