<title:>Tech
 Sony  Replaces Mobile Division Head; Hiroki Totoki Has Been Widely Viewed as Instrumental in  Sony ・s Structural Reforms
<Date:>29 October 2014
<Content:>
TOKYO--Sony Corp. on Thursday named Senior Vice President Hiroki Totoki as the new head of its mobile division, the electronics giant・s latest move to prop up its struggling smartphone business.
Mr. Totoki, who once led Sony Bank, part of the company・s financial arm, as well as the Sony・s Internet-service provider business So-net, will replace the current head of Sony Mobile Communications, Kunimasa Suzuki, on Nov. 16. Mr. Suzuki will become an executive vice president of Sony Entertainment, which oversees the conglomerate・s music, movie and publication segments.
：In light of the global mobile market that is rapidly becoming competitive and difficult, we need to make our business profitable,； a spokeswoman at Sony said. ：Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai judged Mr. Totoki, who has a proven track of record in turning the business profitable, is the most suited for the job.；
Sony posted a net profit in the April-June quarter despite the unprofitable smartphone business, thanks to its financial and videogame segments.
The 50-year-old Sony veteran has been widely viewed as the man behind the curtain in implementing Sony・s structural reforms aimed at returning the company to profit in the next fiscal year, which begins in April.
Sony in September lowered its earnings forecast for the year ending in March as it plans to write down the book value of the mobile segment, a move that was welcomed by some analysts as proof that Mr. Totoki and Chief Financial Officer Kenichiro Yoshida were taking a greater control of the company.
Sony・s July-September quarterly earnings are due to be released on Friday. The company is expected to record a big net loss because of the announced ?180 billion ($1.65 billion) mobile division write-down. It is also plans to lower its sales goals for its Xperia smartphones for the current year. Sony already cut the figure once, in July.
