<title:>Asia
What¡¦s News¡X
<Date:>2 November 2014
<Content:>
Business & Finance
November through January has historically brought the strongest gains for U.S. stocks. Money managers are weighing whether the pattern will hold up now.
China¡¦s hedge funds, which have operated in a legal gray area, are moving into the mainstream as regulators roll out laws to manage the fast-growing industry.
KKR increased its investment in German cookware maker WMF, hoping to tap China¡¦s appetite for European luxury goods.
A conglomerate controlled by Myanmar¡¦s military won a legal battle against a Singaporean partner for full control of Myanmar¡¦s biggest brewery, in a case that has stirred concern over legal protections for foreign investors in the country.
Sony¡¦s latest loss contained a bit of good news: Sales of its PlayStation 4 videogame console and its camera sensors for smartphones are booming.
Samsung Group¡¦s de facto holding company said it applied for an IPO that will raise as much as $1.4 billion, South Korea¡¦s biggest offering this year.
UBS beefed up rules restricting currency traders¡¦ ability to make transactions for their personal accounts when buying or selling on behalf of the bank or its clients.
BHP¡¦s CEO said the coming spinoff of some of his company¡¦s assets shows that BHP isn¡¦t about getting bigger and bigger.
McDonald¡¦s is eliminating layers of management and creating a new organizational structure in the U.S. as it seeks to better respond to consumer tastes amid falling sales and profits.
Profit at Exxon Mobil and Chevron rose last quarter despite sharply lower crude prices, boosted by strength in oil refining businesses that have fallen out of favor at some smaller rivals.
World-Wide
A suicide bombing at a venue next to Pakistan¡¦s Wagah border crossing with India killed at least 48 people and wounded more than 100 as crowds gathered for a nightly parade by Pakistani and Indian troops, police said.
Islamic State extremists lined up and shot at least 50 tribesmen, women and children in Iraq¡¦s Anbar province, officials said, the latest mass killing by the group.
Abu Sayyaf gunmen killed six soldiers who were guarding a road project that has been delayed by militant attacksin a southern Philippine province, the military said.
Power was restored to most parts of Bangladesh late Saturday after a 12-hour outage plunged the nation of 150 million into darkness.
Two Malaysian children sued Malaysia Airlines and the government over the loss of their father on Flight 370 in March.
